3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

ot) WIKIPEDIA
Noa J ‘The Free Encyclopedia

Links between Trump associates and
Russian officials

Since Donald Trump was a 2016 candidate for the office of President of the United States, multiple!#!
suspicious links between Trump associates and Russian officials were discovered by the FBI,
a special counsel investigation, and several United States congressional committees, as part of their
investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections.!2) Following intelligence
reports about the Russian interference, Trump and some of his campaign members, business
partners, administration nominees, and family members were subjected to intense scrutiny to
determine whether they had improper dealings during their contacts with Russian officials.[51l4]
Several people connected to the Trump campaign made false statements about those links and
obstructed investigations.!2! These investigations resulted in many criminal charges and indictments.

Starting in 2015, several allied foreign intelligence agencies began reporting secret contacts between
Trump campaigners and known or suspected Russian agents in multiple European cities.{5J[61(7] th
November 2016, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov contradicted Trump's denials by
confirming the Trump campaign had been in contact with Russia, stating in a 2016 Interfax news
agency interview: "Obviously, we know most of the people from his entourage,” adding "I cannot say
that all of them but quite a few have been staying in touch with Russian representatives." |81L9]

The bipartisan Senate Intelligence Committee Russia report described how "secretive meetings and
communications with Russian representatives... signaled that there was little intention by the
incoming administration to punish Russia for the assistance it had just provided in its unprecedented
attack on American democracy."#°! Ultimately, Mueller's investigation "did not establish that
members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its
election interference activities” J

Overview

1977-1987 alleged cultivation and recruitment of Trump by KGB

For many years, there has been intensive public scrutiny of Trump's ties to Russia.!2I/3] In a book
excerpt published in Politico, former Guardian Russia correspondent Luke Harding stated that files
declassified in 2016 indicated that Czech spies closely followed Trump and then-wife Ivana Trump in
Manhattan and during trips to Czechoslovakia in the time after their marriage in 1977.4/15] Claims
made by ex-KGB official Yuri Shvets were a basis of these allegations.2°l7] Natalia and Irina
Dubinin, daughters of then-Soviet ambassador Yuri Dubinin, are cited as indicating that a seemingly
chance meeting of their father with Trump in the autumn of 1986 was part of Dubinin's assignment to
establish contact with America's business elite and a determined effort by the Soviet government to
cultivate Trump in particular./41

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 138
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

This effort extended through a series of subsequent events, also documented in Donald Trump's book
The Art of the Deal, including a meeting in 1986 between the Ambassador and Trump at Trump
Tower and Dubinin's subsequent invitation to Trump to visit Moscow (which was handled via KGB-
affiliated Intourist and the future Russian Permanent Representative to the United Nations Vitaly
Churkin).!4] Harding also asserts that the "top level of the Soviet diplomatic service arranged his 1987
Moscow visit. With assistance from the KGB... The spy chief [Vladimir Kryuchkov] wanted KGB staff
abroad to recruit more Americans."!4] Harding cited Trump as writing in The Art that the trip
included a tour of "a half dozen potential sites for a hotel, including several near Red Square” and that
he "was impressed with the ambition of Soviet officials to make a deal” {41

In February 2025, The Hill reported on three cases where claims were made by ex-KGB officials that
Trump had been cultivated, recruited (with the codename "Krasnov") in 1987, and/or compromised.
The aforementioned claims by Shvets, which were also a significant basis for Craig Unger's best-
selling book, American Kompromat: How the KGB Cultivated Donald Trump, and Related Tales of
Sex, Greed, Power, and Treachery, were also backed by Alnur Mussayev, former head of Kazakhstan’s
intelligence service, and Sergei Zhyrnov, an ex-KGB officer living in France.!!8] Mussayev also
asserted that Trump is compromised:

Although the credibility of the 'Steele dossier’ has been vehemently contested by Trump
supporters, especially for its use of anonymous sources, Mussayev confirms the existence of
kompromat on Trump...:

‘T have no doubt that Russia has kompromat on the US President, that over the course of
many years the Kremlin has been promoting Trump to the post of President of the main
world power.'#21

Number of contacts by Trump associates with Russians

By April 19, 2019, The New York Times had documented that "Donald J. Trump and 18 of his
associates had at least 140 contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries,
during the 2016 campaign and presidential transition."!2°]

The Moscow Project — an initiative of the Center for American Progress Action Fund — had, by June 3,
2019, documented "272 contacts between Trump's team and Russia-linked operatives ... including at
least 38 meetings.... None of these contacts were ever reported to the proper authorities. Instead, the
Trump team tried to cover up every single one of them."!211

2015-2016 foreign surveillance of Russian targets

In late 2015, the British eavesdropping agency GCHQ, during the course of routine surveillance of
"known Kremlin operatives already on the grid", used "electronic intelligence” to collect information
from these Russian targets. They found that "Russians were talking to people associated with
Trump...According to sources in the US and the UK, [the conversations] formed a suspicious
pattern."L©l The British passed this information about "suspicious 'interactions™ between "members of
Donald Trump's campaign team" and "known or suspected Russian agents" to U.S. intelligence
agencies. 6ll5]

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 2138
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

Over the next six months, European and Australian allies began to "pass along information about
people close to Mr. Trump meeting with Russians in the Netherlands, Britain and other countries."!Z!
Reports of these "contacts between Trump's inner circle and Russians" were shared by seven allied
foreign intelligence agencies (reportedly those of the United Kingdom, Germany, Estonia, Poland,
Australia, France, and the Netherlands).l°1l5] The New York Times also reported that British and
Dutch agencies had evidence of meetings between "Russian officials — and others close to Russia's
president, Vladimir V. Putin — and associates of President-elect Trump".!Z]

Later, U.S. intelligence overheard Russians, some of them within the Kremlin, discussing contacts
with Trump associates, !©l5] with some Russian officials arguing about how much to interfere in the
election.!Z]

Then cyber attacks on state electoral systems led the Obama administration to directly accuse the
Russians of interfering.!7

Because they are not allowed to surveil the private communications of American citizens without a
warrant, the "FBI and the CIA were slow to appreciate the extensive nature of these contacts between
Trump's team and Moscow."L51

2016 campaign

During the 2016 campaign, Trump repeatedly praised Russian president Vladimir Putin as a strong
leader. Peter Conradi, in GO magazine, described this relationship as a "bromance”.(22I[23]

Between 2013 and 2015, Trump stated "I do have a relationship with" Putin, "I met him once", and "I
spoke indirectly and directly with President Putin, who could not have been nicer." From 2016, during
his election campaign, his stance changed. During a press conference in July 2016, he claimed, "I
never met Putin, I don't know who Putin is ... Never spoken to him”, and in a July interview said, "I
have no relationship with him."/241

In November 2016, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told the Interfax news agency,
"Obviously, we know most of the people from his entourage", and "I cannot say that all of them but
quite a few have been staying in touch with Russian representatives."[81l21

2017

Several Trump advisers, including former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn and former
campaign manager Paul Manafort, have been connected to Russian officials, or to Viktor Yanukovich
and other pro-Russian Ukrainian officials. [25126]

The New York Times wrote on May 24, 2017, citing intelligence sources, that Russian agents were
overheard during the campaign saying they could use Manafort and Flynn to influence Trump.|27]
Members of Trump's campaign, and later his White House staff, particularly Flynn and Jared
Kushner, were in contact with Russian government officials both before and after the November
election,!28] including some contacts which they initially did not disclose.[221

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 338
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia
Newspaper reports

The Wall Street Journal reported that United States intelligence agencies monitoring Russian
espionage found Kremlin officials discussing Trump's associates in the spring of 2015. At the time,
U.S. intelligence analysts were reportedly confused, but not alarmed, by these intercepted
conversations. In July 2017, the conversations were re-examined in light of a recently disclosed
Trump Tower meeting involving Donald Trump Jr. and Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya./30031]

The New York Times reported that multiple Trump associates, including Manafort and other
members of his campaign, had repeated contacts with senior Russian intelligence officials during
2016, although officials said that, so far, they did not have evidence that Trump's campaign had
cooperated with the Russians to influence the election. Manafort said he did not knowingly meet any
Russian intelligence officials.32!

Meetings with Kislyak

After Senator Jeff Sessions, who was part of the Trump campaign, first
denied he had any contact with Russians during the campaign, even
though he had met with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak, and Michael
Flynn, also a member of the campaign, lied twice about meetings with
Kislyak, the media focused negative attention on Kislyak. National
security experts "generally agree that Sessions and other Trump
campaign officials have handled the Russia issue poorly. Sessions, they
say, should have told Congress about his meeting with Kislyak. And they
say Flynn was reckless and wrong to speak with Russian diplomats about
sanctions during the transition period when Obama was still
president."/331[7]

Russian diplomat Sergey
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told CNN that the "electoral process” _Kislyak met with a number

was not discussed during these meetings, and that Kislyak had also met of U.S. officials.
with "people working in think tanks advising Hillary or advising people
working for Hillary" during the campaign.341

In particular, Kislyak met with several Trump campaign members, transition team members, and
administration nominees. Involved people dismissed those meetings as routine conversations in
preparation for assuming the presidency. Trump's team has issued at least twenty denials concerning
communications between his campaign and Russian officials;/25] several of which later turned out to
be false. [361371

The Trump administration reportedly asked the FBI for help in countering the news reports about
alleged contacts with Russia.38]

Former ambassadors Michael McFaul and John Beyrle said they were "extremely troubled” by the
evidence of Russian interference in the U.S. election. Both supported an independent investigation
into the matter, but dismissed as "preposterous" the allegations that Kislyak participated in it,
particularly through his meetings with the Trump campaign: "Kislyak's job is to meet with
government officials and campaign people," McFaul stated. "People should meet with the Russian
Ambassador and it's wrong to criminalize that or discourage it."133]

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 438
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia
December 2016 Trump Tower meeting

In March, 2017, Trump's White House disclosed that Kushner, Kislyak, and Flynn had met at Trump
Tower in December 2016. At that meeting, the Washington Post reported that Kushner requested that
a direct, Russian-encrypted communications channel be set up to allow secret communication with
Russia and to circumvent safeguards in place by the United States intelligence community.82] Some
sources told the Post that the purpose of such a link would have been to allow Flynn to speak directly
to Russian military officials about Syria and other issues, while others pointed out that there would be
no reason for such discussions to be concealed from appropriate US government officials. According
to the sources, no such communications channel was actually set up.{4°!

After the meeting, Kislyak sent a report of the meeting to the Kremlin using what he thought were
secure channels, but the report was intercepted by American intelligence. Kislyak was reportedly
taken aback by the request and expressed concern about the security implications at stake in having
an American use secure communications between the Kremlin and diplomatic outposts./39J[41]

March 2017

In March 2017 former Acting CIA Director Michael Morell stated that he had seen no evidence of
conspiracy between Trump and the Kremlin: "On the question of the Trump campaign conspiring
with the Russians here, there is smoke, but there is no fire, at all."/42]

In a March 2017 interview with Chuck Todd, James Clapper, who had been the Director of National
Intelligence under President Obama until January 20, 2017, revealed the state of his knowledge at
that time:

CHUCK TODD: Were there improper contacts between the Trump campaign and Russian
officials?

JAMES CLAPPER: We did not include any evidence in our report, and I say, "our," that's N.S.A.,
F.B.I. and C.I.A., with my office, the Director of National Intelligence, that had anything, that
had any reflection of collusion between members of the Trump campaign and the Russians.
There was no evidence of that...

CHUCK TODD: I understand that. But does it exist?

JAMES CLAPPER: Not to my knowledge.

Todd pressed him to elaborate.

CHUCK TODD: If [evidence of collusion] existed, it would have been in this report?

JAMES CLAPPER: This could have unfolded or become available in the time since I left the
government.3]

Clapper had stopped receiving briefings on January 20 and was "not aware of the counterintelligence
investigation Director Comey first referred to during his testimony before the House Permanent Select
Committee for Intelligence on the 20th of March".[43] CNN stated that Clapper had “taken a major

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 538
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

defense away from the White House."/441

2017-2018 Trump DOJ investigations of opposition politicians

The New York Times reported in June 2021 that in 2017 and 2018 Trump's Justice Department
subpoenaed metadata from the iCloud accounts of at least a dozen people associated with the House
Intelligence Committee, including that of Democratic ranking member Adam Schiff and Eric Swalwell,
and family members, to investigate leaks to the press about contacts between Trump associates and
Russia. Records of the inquiry did not implicate anyone associated with the committee, but upon
becoming attorney general William Barr revived the effort, including by appointing a federal
prosecutor and about six others in February 2020. The Times reported that, apart from corruption
investigations, subpoenaing communications information of members of Congress is nearly unheard-
of, and that some in the Justice Department saw Barr's approach as politically motivated.[45][4¢]
Justice Department inspector general Michael Horowitz announced an inquiry into the matter the day
after the Times report.[47]

2019

After 22 months of investigation, Special Counsel Robert Mueller submitted his report to the Justice
Department on March 22, 2019./48! The investigation "did not establish that members of the Trump
campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference
activities” [L491

Attorney General William Barr ordered the United States Department of Justice Office of the
Inspector General under Michael E. Horowitz to investigate the FBI investigation of the 2016 Donald
Trump campaign. The investigation was largely based on a May 2016 conversation between Trump
campaign adviser George Papadopoulos and Australian diplomat Alexander Downer in London.
Papadopolous reportedly said he heard that Russia had thousands of emails from Democratic
nominee Hillary Clinton.5°] The Inspector General released his report on December 9, 2019,
concluding that the investigation was justified and done correctly, although some mistakes were
made.!51Jl52] Barr rejected key findings from the report, although he could not order Horowitz to alter
his report because the inspector general operates independently from the department.!531 President
Trump called the report "a disgrace" and said he was waiting for the Durham special counsel
investigation to produce a report. The investigation is being headed up by John Durham, the United
States Attorney for the District of Connecticut.[541

2020

On August 17, 2020, Roger Stone dropped his appeal of seven felony convictions related to the House
of Representatives investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. This came after
Trump commuted Stone's 40-month prison term and $20,000 fine.[55]

The United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released its final report on August 18,

2020. The report concluded that there were significant ties between the 2016 Trump presidential
campaign and Russia. In particular, they noted that Paul Manafort had hired Konstantin V. Kilimnik,
a "Russian intelligence officer,” and that Kilimnik was possibly connected to the 2016 hack and leak

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 638
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia
operation. The investigation was led by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) until Burr stepped aside for an
unrelated investigation into allegedly illegal stock trades: Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) then led the
committee.[5°]

2022

On November 17, 2022, Republican political operative Jesse Benton was convicted by a federal jury
for a 2016 scheme to funnel Russian money to the Donald Trump campaign. According to court
documents, Benton caused a Russian foreign national to wire $100,000 to his consulting firm, of
which $25,000 of the money from the Russian national was contributed to the Trump
campaign.l57J[58I[59]

2023

In March 2023, The Guardian reported that since October 2022, prosecutors in the US Attorney for
the Southern District of New York were investigating alleged Russian financial ties to Trump Media &
Technology Group. In December 2021, two loans totaling $8 million were paid to Trump Media from
obscure Putin-connected entities as the company was "on the brink of collapse”. $2 million was paid
by Paxum Bank, part-owned by Anton Postolnikov, a relation of Aleksandr Smirnov, a former Russian
government official who now runs the Russian shipping company Rosmorport. $6 million was paid by
an ostensibly separate entity, ES Family Trust, whose director was the director of Paxum Bank at the
same time. ©o]l©1]

Trump administration members

Michael Flynn

In December 2015, Michael Flynn was paid $45,000 by Russia
Today, a Kremlin-supported television channel, for delivering a
talk in Moscow, and Russia provided him a three-day, all-
expenses-paid trip.[©2] As a retired military intelligence officer,
Flynn was required to obtain prior permission from the Defense
Department and the State Department before receiving any money
from foreign governments; Flynn apparently did not seek that
approval before the RT speech.!©3] Two months later, in February
2016 when he was applying for renewal of his security clearance,
he stated he had received no income from foreign companies and
had only "insubstantial contact” with foreign nationals.!°4] Glenn
A. Fine, the acting Defense Department Inspector General,
confirmed he was investigating Flynn.!©2!

On November 10, 2016, President Obama warned President-elect Fiyinn statement of offense
Trump against hiring Flynn.l65l[6°] Trump appointed Flynn as
National Security Advisor on November 18, 2016, but Flynn was

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 738
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia
forced to resign on February 13, 2017, after it was revealed that on December 29, 2016, the day Obama
announced sanctions against Russia, Flynn discussed the sanctions by phone with Russian
ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Flynn had earlier acknowledged speaking to Kislyak but denied
discussing the sanctions. ©zl¢8]

On March 2, 2017, The New York Times reported that Flynn and Kushner met with Kislyak in
December 2016 to establish a secret line of communication (backchannel) between the Trump
administration and the Russian government.|©9] In May 2017, it was further reported that at that
December meeting, Kushner and Flynn asked the Russians to set up a direct, encrypted
communications channel with Moscow, so that Flynn could speak directly to Russian military officials
about Syria and other matters without the knowledge of American intelligence agencies. Kislyak was
hesitant to allow Americans access to Russia's secure communications network, and no such channel
was actually set up.{39J[42]

On May 31, 2017, the House Intelligence Committee served Flynn with subpoenas for testimony and
production of personal documents and business records.!7°1l71] On September 13, The Wall Street
Journal reported that Flynn promoted a Russian-backed, multibillion-dollar Middle Eastern nuclear
plant project while working in the White House.!22! The project involved building 40 nuclear reactors
across the Middle East, with security provided by Rosoboron, a Russian state-owned arms exporter
that is under American sanctions.!Z3] On September 15, BuzzFeed reported that Flynn, Kushner, and
Bannon secretly met with King Abdullah II of Jordan on January 5, 2017, to press for the nuclear
power plant project.!741

On December 1, 2017, Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI[Z5] and was later pardoned by
Trump.!7¢

Jared Kushner

The special counsel investigated Kushner's finances, business activities, and meetings with Russian
banker Sergey Gorkov and Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak.!27]

In April 2017, it was reported that Donald Trump's son-in-law and senior advisor, Jared Kushner, on
his application for top secret security clearance, failed to disclose numerous meetings with foreign
officials, including Sergey Kislyak and Sergey Gorkov, the head of the Russian state-owned bank
Vnesheconombank. Kushner's lawyers called the omissions "an error". Vnesheconombank said the
meeting was business-related, in connection with Kushner’s management of Kushner Companies. The
Trump administration said it was a diplomatic meeting.!78]

According to U.S. officials, investigators believe that Kushner has important information regarding
the FBI investigation.!79! In mid-December 2016, when Trump "was openly feuding with American
intelligence agencies", Kushner met for thirty minutes with Russian banker Sergey N. Gorkov, “whose
financial institution was deeply intertwined with Russian intelligence" and is "under sanction by the
United States". By late May 2017, the meeting had "come under increasing scrutiny" by the Senate
Intelligence Committee, as "current and former American officials" said "it may have been part of an
effort by Mr. Kushner to establish a direct line to Mr. Putin outside established diplomatic
channels."139J[8°1

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 838
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

Wilbur Ross

As reported in the Paradise Papers, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross has shares in Navigator, a
publicly traded shipping company that has contracts with Russian gas company Sibur, held in off-
shore accounts. Co-owners of Sibur have ties to Vladimir Putin and are under U.S. sanctions.!81!

Anthony Scaramucci

In July 2017, Anthony Scaramucci, a Trump campaign member who was appointed White House
Communications Director, was involved in discussions about joint investments between his firm and a
sanctioned Russian government fund. Scaramucci met with Kirill Dmitriev, head of the Russian Direct
Investment Fund, a $10 billion state investment firm under U.S. government sanctions. Scaramucci
confirmed the meeting took place, saying he had "long known" Dmitriev, and criticized American
sanctions as ineffective.[82] In June 2017, CNN published a story about an alleged congressional
investigation into Scaramucci's relationship with the fund. The story was quickly retracted as "not
solid enough to publish as-is", and resulted in the resignation of three CNN employees.|83]

Jeff Sessions

In March 2017, it was revealed that while still a U.S. Senator, Attorney
General Jeff Sessions, an early and prominent supporter of Trump's
campaign, spoke twice with Russian ambassador Kislyak before the
election — once in July 2016 and once in September 2016. At his January
10 confirmation hearing to become attorney general, he stated he was not
aware of any contacts between the Trump campaign and the Russian
government, adding that he "did not have communications with the
Russians.” On March 1, 2017, he stated his answer had not been
misleading, clarifying that he had "never met with any Russian officials to
discuss issues of the campaign.”!84] On March 2, 2017, after meeting with
senior career officials at the Justice Department, Sessions announced that

: . oo. . . Attorney General Jeff
he would recuse himself from any investigations into Russia's Sessions

interference in the 2016 presidential election.!851 In such investigations,

Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein has served as the Acting

Attorney General. On January 23, 2018, The New York Times reported that Sessions had been
interviewed by Mueller's team the previous week.[8&l[87]

Rex Tillerson

Former ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson, who was appointed Secretary of State by President Trump,
had close ties to Russia and Vladimir Putin. He managed the Russia account of ExxonMobil, and was
appointed Exxon CEO in 2006 largely on the strength of his Russian relationships. In 2011, Tillerson
struck a major deal with Russia and its state-owned oil company Rosneft, giving ExxonMobil access to
oil resources in the Russian Arctic. In recognition, Tillerson was awarded the Russian Order of
Friendship, Russia's highest decoration for foreign citizens. Tillerson has known Putin since his work
in Russia during the 1990s, and according to John Hamre, "he has had more interactive time with
Vladimir Putin than probably any other American with the exception of Henry Kissinger" [881[891[90]

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 938
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

Trump campaign members

Michael R. Caputo

Republican public relations and media consultant Michael R. Caputo worked for Gazprom in Russia,
and later as an adviser on the Trump campaign. Caputo lived in Russia from 1994 to 2000, employed
by Gazprom-Media, and at the end of that period he contracted with Gazprom to do public relations
work oriented toward raising Vladimir Putin's support level in the U.S.!9#J[921l93] He returned to the
U.S. where his former mentor Roger Stone convinced him to move to Miami Beach, Florida; there
Caputo founded a media advising company. Caputo moved back to Europe in 2007 while advising a
politician's campaign for parliament in Ukraine.!94] Caputo worked as the campaign manager for Carl
Paladino's 2010 run for Governor of New York state.!95J[9°] Caputo was put in charge of the Trump
campaign's communications for the New York state Republican primary from approximately
November 2015 to April 2016, then left the campaign in the summer of 2016. In an inquiry by the
House Intelligence Committee as part of their investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S.
presidential election, Caputo denied having ties to the Russian government while working on the
Trump campaign.!9J[97] On June 18, 2018, Caputo admitted in a CNN interview that he told the
Mueller investigation about his contacts with Henry Greenberg, a Russian claiming to have
information about Hillary Clinton, in contrast to what he told the House Intelligence Committee in
2017.1981199] Caputo has since modified his testimony to the now closed House Intelligence Committee
investigation to reflect his contact with Henry Greenberg.99]

Paul Manafort

On February 14, 2017, The New York Times reported that Paul
Manafort had repeated contacts with senior Russian intelligence
officials during 2016. Manafort said he did not knowingly meet
any Russian intelligence officials.!32! Intercepted communications
during the campaign show that Russian officials believed they
could use Manafort to influence Trump.2°° On June 2, 2017,
special counsel Robert Mueller assumed the criminal probe into
Manafort,!°] which predated the 2016 election and the
counterintelligence probe that in July 2016 began investigating
possible collusion between Moscow and associates of Trump.
Manafort was forced to resign as Trump campaign chairman in
August 2016 amid questions over his business dealings in Ukraine
years earlier./2°1] On September 18, 2017, CNN reported that the
FBI wiretapped Manafort from 2014 until an unspecified date in
2016 and again from the fall of 2016 until early 2017, pursuant to
two separate Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court J. Manafort Jr and Richard W.
. - Gates Ill, unsealed October 30,
orders. It has not been confirmed that Trump's conversations with 55,7
Manafort were intercepted as part of this surveillance. CNN also
confirmed that "Mueller’s team ... has been provided details of
these communications."/402]

Grand jury indictment against Paul

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 10/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

In October 2017, Manafort was indicted by a federal grand jury and arrested on twelve criminal
charges including conspiracy, money laundering, failure to register as an agent of a foreign power, and
false statements.U°3] The charges arose from his consulting work for a pro-Russian government in
Ukraine and are unrelated to the Trump campaign.!°4! Manafort pleaded not guilty and was placed
under house arrest.#°5] On February 22, 2018, Manafort was indicted on 32 federal charges including
tax evasion, money laundering and fraud relating to their foreign lobbying before, during and after the
2016 campaign.!°°] The following day, after Rick Gates pleaded guilty to some charges, he was
indicted on two additional charges relating to pro-Russian lobbying in the United States.107]

On September 14, Manafort entered a plea deal with prosecutors, pleading guilty to a charge of
conspiracy against the United States and a charge of conspiracy to obstruct justice, while also agreeing
to co-operate with the Special Counsel investigation.2°8] Mueller's office stated in a November 26,
2018, court filing that while supposedly co-operating Manafort had repeatedly lied about a variety of
matters, breaching the terms of his plea agreement.l109] On December 7, 2018, the special counsel's
office filed a document with the court listing five areas in which they say Manafort lied to them.!2°] In
January 2019, Manafort's lawyers submitted a filing to the court in response to this accusation.
Through an error in redacting, the document accidentally revealed that while he was campaign
chairman, Manafort met with Konstantin Kilimnik, who is believed to be linked to Russian
intelligence. The filing says Manafort gave him polling data related to the 2016 campaign and
discussed a Ukrainian peace plan with him.2141

Rick Gates

Rick Gates, a longtime business partner and protégé of Paul Manafort, was a senior member of the
Trump campaign. He continued to work for Trump after Manafort's resignation and Trump's election
as president, but in April 2017 was forced to resign from a pro-Trump lobbying group "amid new
questions about Russian interference in the 2016 election".!42! Records reviewed by The New York
Times showed that Gates held meetings in Moscow with associates of Russian oligarch Oleg
Deripaska, and "His name appears on documents linked to shell companies that Mr. Manafort's firm
set up in Cyprus to receive payments from politicians and businesspeople in Eastern Europe."!2!
Gates worked with Manafort to promote Viktor Yanukovych and pro-Russian factions in Ukraine.

Deripaska was the biggest investor in Davis Manafort, a lobbying and investment firm that employed
Gates, 412Jf13]014]

In October 2017, Gates was indicted by a federal grand jury and arrested on twelve criminal charges
including conspiracy, money laundering, failure to register as an agent of a foreign power, and false
statements.!!°3] The charges arose from his consulting work for the pro-Russian government in
Ukraine and are unrelated to the Trump campaign.!!°4] Gates pleaded not guilty and was placed under
house arrest.°5] On February 22, 2018, Gates was indicted on 38 federal charges including tax
evasion, money laundering and fraud relating to their foreign lobbying before, during and after the
2016 campaign.!!°°] The following day, Gates pleaded guilty to making false statements to the FBI and
conspiracy to defraud the United States and agreed to cooperate with Mueller's investigation.!""5] The
second set of indictments were to stand pending Gates’ cooperation and assistance in the Mueller
investigation.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 11/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

Carter Page

In a March 2016 interview, Trump identified Carter Page, who had previously been an investment
banker in Moscow, as a foreign policy adviser in his campaign.22°] Page became a foreign policy
adviser to Trump in the summer of 2016. During the investigation into Russian interference in the
2016 U.S. elections, Page's past contacts with Russians came to public attention.!!Z! In 2013, Page
met with Viktor Podobnyy, then a junior attaché at the Permanent Mission of the Russian Federation
to the United Nations, at an energy conference, and provided him with documents on the U.S. energy
industry.18] Page later said he provided only "basic immaterial information and publicly available
research documents” to Podobnyy.!17] Podobnyy was later one of a group of three Russian men
charged by U.S. authorities for participation in a Russian spy ring. Podobnyy and one of the other men
were protected by diplomatic immunity from prosecution; a third man, who was spying for Russia
under non-diplomatic cover, pleaded guilty to conspiring to act as an unregistered foreign agent and
was sentenced to prison.!7] The men had attempted to recruit Page to work for the SVR, a Russian
intelligence service. The FBI interviewed Page in 2013 as part of an investigation into the spy ring, but
decided that he had not known the man was a spy, and never accused Page of wrongdoing.!"17] Page
has been the subject of four Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) warrants, the first in 2014, at
least two years earlier than was indicated in the stories concerning his role in the 2016 presidential
campaign of Donald Trump.!19] 2017 news accounts about the warrant indicated it was granted
because of Page's ties to Buryakov, Podobnyy, and the third Russian who attempted to recruit him,
Igor Sporyshev./220]

Page was dropped from the Trump team after reports that he was under investigation by federal
authorities.42!] The FBI and the Justice Department obtained a FISA warrant to monitor Page's
communications during October 2016, after they made the case that there was probable cause to think
Page was acting as an agent of a foreign power. Page told The Washington Post that he considered
that to be “unjustified, politically motivated government surveillance."!!©] According to the Nunes
memo, the 90-day warrant was renewed three times.

In February 2017, Page stated he had no meetings with Russian officials during 2016, but two days
later did not deny meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during the 2016 Republican
National Convention in Cleveland. Page's revised account occurred after news reports revealed that
Attorney General Jeff Sessions had likewise met with Kislyak. In March 2017, Page was called on by
the Senate Intelligence Committee investigating links between the Trump campaign and Russian
government.!22I[!23] On March 9, 2017, Hope Hicks, a Trump spokesperson, distanced the campaign
from Page, stating that Page was an “informal foreign policy adviser" who did "not speak for Mr.
Trump or the campaign."/2241

In September 2017, Page filed a defamation lawsuit against the media company Oath Inc. for its
outlets' reporting of his alleged meetings with Russian officials.425! The suit was dismissed in March
2018 for lacking factual accusations of defamation.22°] On February 11, 2021, Page lost a defamation
suit he had filed against Yahoo! News and HuffPost for their articles which described his activities
mentioned in the Steele dossier. The judge said that Page admitted the articles about his potential
contacts with Russian officials were essentially true.427]

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 12/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia
In January 2021, an FBI lawyer, Kevin Clinesmith, was sentenced to probation for "making a false
statement"!28] by intentionally altering an internal FBI email in connection with a FISA request to

continue government surveillance on former Trump campaign official Carter Page in 2016 and
2017, 229)b30)l131]032]033]

George Papadopoulos

In March 2016, George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser on
the Trump campaign, sent an email to seven campaign officials
with the subject line "Meeting with Russian Leadership —
Including Putin”, offering to set up "a meeting between us and the
Russian leadership to discuss US-Russia ties under President
Trump". Trump campaign advisers Sam Clovis and Charles Kubic
objected to this proposed meeting.234] In May 2016, Ivan
Timofeev, an official for the Russian International Affairs Council,
emailed Papadopoulos about setting up a meeting with Trump and
Russian officials in Moscow. Papadopoulos forwarded the email to
Paul Manafort, who responded, "We need someone to
communicate that [Trump] is not doing these trips."/234J/35]

Papadopoulos was arrested in July 2017 and subsequently

cooperated with Special Counsel Robert Mueller's George Papadopolous, of Chicago,

investigation.“3°] In October 2017 he pleaded guilty to a single _ lllinois, pleaded guilty on October 5,

charge of making a false statement to FBI investigators.37] The 2017 0 making false statements to
uilty plea was part of a plea bargain in which he agreed to FBI agents, in violation of 18 U.S.C.

5 P ‘as P Pp 8 7 ; © a8 ; 1001. The case was unsealed on

cooperate with the government and "provide information — ociober 39 2017.

regarding any and all matters as to which the Government deems

relevant."1138]

Following this, on September 7, 2018, Papadopoulos was sentenced to 14 days in prison, 12 months
supervised release, 200 hours of community service and was fined $9,500.39! He was later pardoned
by Trump in December 2020.!761

Roger Stone

Roger Stone, a former adviser to Donald Trump and self-proclaimed political "dirty trickster", said in
March 2017 that during August 2016, he had been in contact with Guccifer 2.0, a hacker persona who
publicly claimed responsibility for at least one hack of the DNC, believed to be operated by Russian
intelligence.44°] In a 2019 filing, prosecutors claimed Stone communicated with Wikileaks, and
sought details about the scope of information stolen from the Democratic Party.!41) Just prior to the
election, the Clinton campaign accused Stone of having prior knowledge of the hacks, after he wrote,
"Trust me, it will soon [sic] the Podesta's time in the barrel" on Twitter shortly before Wikileaks
released the Podesta emails.!42] Stone claimed he was actually referring to reports of the Podesta
Group's own ties to Russia.!43] In his opening statement before the United States House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence on September 26, 2017, Stone reiterated this explanation: "Note that
my tweet of August 21, 2016, makes no mention whatsoever of Mr. Podesta's email, but does

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 1338
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia
accurately predict that the Podesta brothers’ business activities in Russia ... would come under public
scrutiny."!'44] Stone has reportedly stated privately to some Republican colleagues that he has
communicated with Julian Assange on at least one occasion, although Stone and his two attorneys
have since denied this.45! Instead, Stone has "clarified ... that the two have a mutual journalist
friend", who Stone ultimately named as Randy Credico, 24311461

On January 25, 2019, Stone was arrested at his Fort Lauderdale, Florida, home in connection with
Robert Mueller’s Special Counsel investigation and charged in an indictment with witness tampering,
obstructing an official proceeding, and five counts of making false statements.14ZI48] He pleaded not
guilty and denied wrongdoing in press interviews.!49! Stone was convicted on all seven counts on
November 15, 2019,!5°]151] and was due to be sentenced in February 2020.52] His sentence was
later commuted by Trump.!Z¢l

Donald Trump Jr.

In May 2016, Donald Trump Jr. met with Aleksandr Torshin and Maria Butina at a National Rifle
Association of America-sponsored dinner.!!531 Both Torshin and Butina worked to broker a secret
meeting between then-candidate Trump and Russian president Putin./4541

On June 9, 2016, Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner and Paul Manafort had a meeting with Russian
lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya after being promised information about Hillary Clinton. Trump Jr. told
The New York Times the meeting was about the Magnitsky Act.!455] In emails proposing the meeting,
publicist Rob Goldstone did not mention the Magnitsky Act and instead promised "documents and
information that would incriminate Hillary" as "part of Russia and its government's support for Mr.
Trump", to which Donald Trump Jr. responded, "if it's what you say I love it."145°1571

On October 9, 2017, CNN reported that Scott S. Balber, formerly a lawyer for Donald Trump and now
the billionaire Aras Agalarov's lawyer, obtained a memo from Veselnitskaya which showed that her
focus at the meeting was repealing the Magnitsky Act sanctions, "not providing damaging information
on Clinton".58] Subsequently, Foreign Policy published the full memo she took to the meeting. #59!

Trump business partners

Michael Cohen

On May 30, 2017, as inquiries into alleged Russian meddling in the U.S. election expanded, both the
House and Senate congressional panels asked President Donald Trump's personal lawyer Michael
Cohen, who was one of Trump's closest confidants,2©° to provide information and testimony about
any communications he had with people connected to the Kremlin. 2160]

On May 31, 2017, the House Intelligence Committee subpoenaed Cohen to testify and produce
personal documents and business records.l20ll72]

The FBI investigated Cohen receiving funds in a shell company account from a firm connected to
Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg.2°2!

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 1438
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

Trump supporters

Nigel Farage

On June 1, 2017, The Guardian reported that Nigel Farage, former leader of the United Kingdom
Independence Party and one of the first non-American political figures to meet Trump following the
election, was a person of interest in the FBI investigation, which Farage denied. Farage had previously
met the Russian Ambassador to the United Kingdom Alexander Yakovenko, Roger Stone and Julian
Assange, and The Guardian's source was quoted as saying, "If you triangulate Russia, WikiLeaks,
Assange and Trump associates, the person who comes up with the most hits is Nigel Farage".431

Andrei Nikolaev

Andrei Nikolaev, son of Russian billionaire businessman Konstantin Nikolaev who financially
supported foreign agent Maria Butina from 2012 to 2014, worked at the Trump Campaign
headquarters and was in the Washington, D.C. Trump International Hotel during Trump's
inauguration in January 2017.164]165]166]

Erik Prince

On April 3, 2017, The Washington Post reported that around January 11, 2017, nine days before
Donald Trump's inauguration, Erik Prince, founder of the Blackwater security company, secretly met
with an unidentified Russian who was close to Vladimir Putin, in the Seychelles. The Trump
administration said it was "not aware of any meetings” and said that Prince was not involved in the
Trump transition. According to U.S., European, and Arab officials, the meeting was arranged by the
United Arab Emirates and the purpose was to establish a back-channel link between Trump and
Putin. The UAE and Trump's associates reportedly tried to convince Russia to limit its support to Iran
and Syria. Prince also appeared to have close ties to Trump's chief strategist, Stephen Bannon.[07]
The Seychelles meeting took place after previous meetings in New York between Trump associates
and officials from Russia and the Emirates, while official contacts between the Trump administration
and Russian agents were coming under close scrutiny from the press and the U.S. intelligence
community. U.S. officials said the FBI is investigating the Seychelles meeting; the FBI refused to
comment.[68]

Two intelligence officials confirmed to NBC News that the Seychelles meeting took place. One of them
corroborated The Washington Post's account, but said it is not clear whether the initiative to arrange
a meeting came from the UAE or Trump's associates and that no Trump transition people were
directly involved. A second official said that the meeting was about "Middle East policy, to cover
Yemen, Syria, Iraq and Iran", not Russia.269]

Prince's spokesperson said, "Erik had no role on the transition team, this is a complete fabrication.
The meeting had nothing to do with President Trump. Why is the so-called under-resourced
intelligence community messing around with surveillance of American citizens when they should be

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 1538
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

hunting terrorists?" A senior Trump administration official called the story of a Trump-Putin back-
channel "ridiculous" [21

The New York Times reported on May 19, 2018, that Donald Trump Jr. met with intermediary George
Nader, Erik Prince, and Joel Zamel in Trump Tower on August 3, 2016. Nader reportedly told Trump
Jr. the crown princes of Saudi Arabia and the UAE were eager to help his father win the election, and
Zamel pitched a social media manipulation campaign. Trump Jr. reportedly responded favorably and
Nader subsequently had frequent meetings with Steve Bannon, Michael Flynn and Jared Kushner.}7°!
The Times reported that Prince had arranged the August 2016 meeting; Prince had stated in his
November 30, 2017, testimony to the House Intelligence Committee that he had no formal
communications or contact, nor any unofficial role, with the Trump campaign.224]

FBI and congressional Intelligence Committee
investigations

FBI investigations began in late July 2016.72] In May 2017, former FBI Director Robert Mueller was
appointed as a special counsel in an expansion of the FBI's investigation.2.73] The Senate Intelligence
Committee!!74] and the House Intelligence Committee also conducted inquiries.275]

The Senate Intelligence Committee described its concerns with secret meetings:

Finally, the Committee's bipartisan Report shows that almost immediately following Election
Day in 2016, the Trump transition responded to Russia's election interference not by supporting
punitive action, but rather by holding a series of secretive meetings and communications with
Russian representatives that served to undercut the outgoing administration's efforts to hold
Russia accountable. The transition’s openness to this private Russian outreach prior to taking
office, so soon after Russia's interference on Trump's behalf, combined with Trump publicly
questioning Russia's involvement, signaled that there was little intention by the incoming
administration to punish Russia for the assistance it had just provided in its unprecedented
attack on American democracy."!!0]

In May 2017, Glenn A. Fine, the acting Defense Department Inspector General, confirmed he was
investigating Michael Flynn for misleading Pentagon investigators about his income from companies
in Russia and contacts with officials there when he applied for a renewal of his top-secret security
clearance./©2] In October 2017, Paul Manafort and Rick Gates were indicted and arrested.'7°] George
Papadopoulos and Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI during the Russia investigation.
Papadopolous served a sentence. Flynn was pardoned by President Trump following the decision by
the Department of Justice to drop the charges but Judge Emmet Sullivan delayed granting the
dismissal.177]

After 22 months of investigation, Special Counsel Robert Mueller submitted his report to the Justice
Department on March 22, 2019./48] The investigation "did not establish that members of the Trump
campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference
activities” [4

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 16/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

Media reports

The New York Times reported on February 14, 2017, that phone records and communications
intercepts showed that Trump associates—including members of the Trump campaign—had "repeated
contacts" with senior Russian intelligence officials during the 2016 campaign. Paul Manafort was the
only Trump associate who was specifically identified as participating in these communications.!"78] In
congressional testimony the following June, former FBI director James Comey, regarding the report
by the New York Times, stated “in the main, it was not true”. The Times reported that during the
intervening months, its sources continued to believe the reporting was "solid."79] In July 2020, the
Senate Judiciary Committee released notes taken contemporaneously with the Times report by FBI
Counterintelligence Division chief Peter Strzok indicating his skepticism about the Times’ reporting,
writing, “We have not seen evidence of any officials associated with the Trump team in contact with
[intelligence officers]" and "“We are unaware of ANY Trump advisors engaging in conversations with
Russian intelligence officials.”#8°] Despite this, the Times still stood by its account, claiming that the
released notes did not provide a fully accurate representation of Strzok's knowledge.!!81] CNN
reported on March 23, 2017, that the FBI was examining "human intelligence, travel, business and
phone records and accounts of in-person meetings" indicating that Trump associates may have
coordinated with "suspected Russian operatives" to release damaging information about the Hillary
Clinton campaign.821 CNN reported on September 19, 2017, that Manafort had been a target of a
FISA wiretap both before and after the 2016 election—beginning sometime after he became the
subject of an FBI investigation in 2014—and extending into early 2017. Some of the intercepted
communications raised concerns among investigators that Manafort had solicited assistance from
Russians for the campaign, although the evidence was reportedly inconclusive.!!°2] On April 30, 2018,
The New York Times published a list of interview questions for Trump that the Mueller investigation
had provided to the president's attorneys. Among the questions was "What knowledge did you have of
any outreach by your campaign, including by Paul Manafort, to Russia about potential assistance to
the campaign?"/83]

Steele dossier

The Steele dossier, also known as the Trump—Russia dossier, is a largely unsubstantiated political
opposition research report written from June to December 2016 containing allegations of misconduct,
conspiracy, and co-operation between Donald Trump's presidential campaign and the government of
Russia prior to and during the 2016 election campaign.!°4085] The media, the intelligence
community, and most experts have treated the dossier with caution due to its unverified allegations,
while Trump denounced it as fake news./8¢1

Lawfare has noted that the "Mueller investigation has clearly produced public records that confirm
pieces of the dossier. And even where the details are not exact, the general thrust of Steele's reporting
seems credible in light of what we now know about extensive contacts between numerous individuals
associated with the Trump campaign and Russian government officials."287]

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 1738
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

CNN described Paul Manafort's role in its report of intercepted communications among "suspected
Russian operatives discussing their efforts to work with Manafort ... to coordinate information that
could damage Hillary Clinton's election prospects ... The suspected operatives relayed what they
claimed were conversations with Manafort, encouraging help from the Russians.""88] These reported
intercepts are considered "remarkably consistent with the raw intelligence in the Steele Dossier ...
[which] states that the ‘well-developed conspiracy of co-operation between [the Trump campaign] and
the Russian leadership ... was managed on the TRUMP side by the Republican candidate's campaign
manager, Paul MANAFORT"."1891

David A. Graham, staff writer at The Atlantic, has written: "It's no wonder Trump is upset about the
dossier, but his mantra that 'there was no collusion [and] everybody including the Dems knows there
was no collusion’ rings false these days. While there's not yet any public evidence to indicate a crime
was committed, or that Trump was involved, it is clear that the Trump campaign and later transition
were eager to work with Russia, and to keep that secret."/9°] (See also: Mueller report#False "no
collusion" claims)

See also

= Foreign electoral intervention

« IP3 International

=» Nunes memo

= Russian espionage in the United States

= Timeline of Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections
= Timeline of Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections (July 2016—election day)

» Timeline of post-election transition following Russian interference in the 2016 United States
elections

= Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia
= Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia
= Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia (January—June 2018)
= Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia (July-December 2018)
= Timeline of investigations into Trump and Russia (2019-2020)

= Trump campaign—Russian meeting on June 9, 2016

mz Russia portal

United States
portal

January—June 2017)
July-December 2017)

NN

References

1. Savage, Charlie; Goldman, Adam (May 17, 2023). "After Years of Political Hype, the Durham
Inquiry Failed to Deliver - A dysfunctional investigation led by a Trump-era special counsel
illustrates a dilemma about prosecutorial independence and accountability in politically sensitive
matters" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/2023/05/1 7/us/politics/durham-report-trump-russia. html). The
New York Times. Archived (htips://archive.today/2023051 707565 7/https://Awww.nytimes.com/2023/
05/1 7/us/politics/durham-report-trump-russia.html) from the original on May 17, 2023. Retrieved
May 17, 2023.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 18/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

2. Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, Ill (March 2019). "Mueller Report: Report On The Investigation
Into Russian Interference In The 2016 Presidential Election. Volume | of Il" (https://storage.courtlis
tener.com/recap/gov.uscourts.dcd.205521 /gov.uscourts.dcd.205521.122.1.pdf) (PDF). U.S.
Department of Justice. Retrieved April 2, 2023. Official source (https://www.justice.gov/storage/rep
ort.pdf)

3. "Full Clapper: "No Evidence" of Collusion Between Trump and Russia" (https:/Avww.nbcnews.com/
meet-the-press/video/full-clapper-no-evidence-of-collusion-between-trump-and-russia-890509379
597). NBC News. March 5, 2017. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/201 70305231 426/http ://w
ww.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/video/full-clapper-no-evidence-of-collusion-between-trump-and-r
ussia-890509379597) from the original on March 5, 2017. Retrieved March 20, 2017.

4. Savage, Charlie (July 11, 2017). "Donald Trump Jr. and Russia: What the Law Says" (https:/Avww.
nytimes.com/201 7/07/11/us/politics/collusion-trump-russia-campaign.html). The New York Times.
Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/202102151 70632/https :/Awww.nytimes.com/201 7/07/11/us/p
olitics/collusion-trump-russia-campaign.html) from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved
July 12, 2017.

5. Harding, Luke; Kirchgaessner, Stephanie; Hopkins, Nick (April 13, 2017). "British spies were first
to spot Trump team's links with Russia" (https:/Avww.theguardian.com/uk-news/201 7/apr/13/british
-Spies-first-to-spot-trump-team-links-russia). The Guardian. Retrieved May 13, 2019.

6. Harding, Luke (November 15, 2017). "How Trump walked into Putin's web" (https:/Avww.theguardi
an.com/news/201 7/nov/15/how-trump-walked-into-putins-web-luke). The Guardian. Retrieved
May 22, 2019. "...the Russians were talking to people associated with Trump. The precise nature
of these exchanges has not been made public, but according to sources in the US and the UK,
they formed a suspicious pattern."

7. Rosenberg, Matthew; Goldman, Adam; Schmidt, Michael S. (March 1, 2017). "Obama
Administration Rushed to Preserve Intelligence of Russian Election Hacking" (https:/Avww.nytime
s.com/201 7/03/01 /us/politics/obama-trump-russia-election-hacking.html). The New York Times.
Retrieved January 19, 2021.

8. Filipov, David; Roth, Andrew (November 10, 2016). "Moscow had contacts with Trump team during
campaign, Russian diplomat says" (https:/Avww.washingtonpost.com/world/moscow-had-contacts-
with-trump-team-during-campaign-russian-diplomat-says/2016/11/10/28fb82ta-a73d-11e6-9bd6-18
4ab22d218e_story.html). The Washington Post. Retrieved January 14, 2022.

9. Nelson, Louis (November 10, 2016). "Report: Trump's team had contacts with Moscow during
campaign" (https://www. politico.com/story/201 6/11 Arump-campaign-moscow-russia-contacts-2311
68). Politico. Retrieved January 14, 2022.

10. Senate Intelligence Committee (August 18, 2020). "Report 116-XX. Report of the Select
Committee on Intelligence United States Senate on Russian Active Measures Campaigns and
Interference in the 2016 U.S. Election Volume 5: Counterintelligence Threats and Vulnerabilities"
(https ://int.nyt.com/data/documenttools/senate-intelligence-committee-russian-interference/8cf58e
574d235164/full.pdf) (PDF). The New York Times. Retrieved August 29, 2020.

11. Herb, Jeremy; Jarrett, Laura; Polantz, Katelyn (March 24, 2019). "Mueller did not find Trump or his
campaign conspired with Russia, also did not exonerate him on obstruction" (https://www.cnn.co
m/2019/03/24/politics/mueller-report-release/index.html). CNN. Retrieved March 24, 2019.

12. McCarthy, Tom (December 13, 2016). "Trump's relationship with Russia — what we know and what
comes next" (https:/Avww.theguardian.com/us-news/201 6/dec/13/donald-trump-russia-vladimir-put
in-us-election-hack). The Guardian. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70226200204 /http
s:/www.theguardian.com/us-news/20 1 6/dec/13/donald-trump-russia-vladimir-putin-us-election-hac
k) from the original on February 26, 2017. Retrieved March 11, 2017.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 1938
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

Bump, Philip (March 3, 2017). "The web of relationships between Team Trump and Russia" (http
s://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/20 1 7/03/03Ahe-web-of-relationships-between-team
-trump-and-russia/). The Washington Post Archived (https://web. archive. org/web/201 7030804025
5/https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/20 1 7/03/03/the-web-of-relationships-between-
team-trump-and-russia/) from the original on March 8, 2017. Retrieved March 11, 2017.

Harding, Luke (November 19, 2017). "The Hidden History of Trump's First Trip to Moscow" (http
s://www.politico.com/magazine/story/201 7/11/1 9/Arump-first-moscow-trip-215842). Politico.
Archived (https://web. archive.org/web/2019051 4082441 /https :/Avww.politico.com/magazine/story/
201 7/11/19Arump-first-moscow-trip-215842) from the original on May 14, 2019. Retrieved
November 19, 2017.

Harding, Luke (2017). Collusion: Secret Meetings, Dirty Money, and How Russia Helped Donald
Trump Win (https://books.google.com/books?id=iZVBDWAAQBAJ). Vintage.
ISBN 9780525562511.

Smith, David (January 29, 2021). "'The perfect target': Russia cultivated Trump as asset for 40
years — ex-KGB spy" (https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021 /jan/29/trump-russia-asset-claim
s-former-kgb-spy-new-book). The Guardian. Retrieved September 28, 2022.

Palma, Bethania (February 2, 2021). "Did Ex-KGB Spy Say Russia Cultivated Trump as an 'Asset'
for 40 Years?" (https://Awww.snopes.com/fact-check/kgb-spy-russia/). Snopes. Retrieved
December 21, 2021.

Motyl, Alexander J. (February 26, 2025). "Was 40-year-old Trump recruited by the KGB?" (https://t
hehill.com/opinion/international/5162890-assessing-new-allegations-that-trump-was-recruited-by-t
he-kgb/). The Hill. Retrieved March 3, 2025.

Luczkiw, Stash (February 22, 2025). "'Trump Recruited as Moscow Asset,’ Says Ex-KGB Spy
Chief" (https://www.kyivpost.com/post/47630). Kyiv Post Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20
250222153435/https://www.kyivpost.com/post/47630) from the original on February 22, 2025.
Retrieved February 22, 2025.

Yourish, Karen; Buchanan, Larry (January 26, 2019). "Mueller Report Shows Depth of
Connections Between Trump Campaign and Russians (updated April 19, 2019)" (https:/Avww. nyti
mes.com/interactive/201 9/01/26/us/politics/trump-contacts-russians-wikileaks.html). The New York
Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/202 10209194131 /https:/Avww. nytimes.com/interactiv
e/2019/01/26/us/politicstrump-contacts-russians-wikileaks.html) from the original on February 9,
2021. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

"Trump's Russia Cover-Up By the Numbers — 272 contacts with Russia-linked operatives" (https://
web.archive.org/web/20191230195858/https://themoscowproject.org/explainers/rumps-russia-cov
er-up-by-the-numbers- 70-contacts-with-russia-linked-operatives/). The Moscow Project. Center for
American Progress. June 3, 2019. Archived from the original (https:/Ahemoscowproject.org/explain
ers/trumps-russia-cover-up-by-the-numbers-70-contacts-with-russia-linked-operatives/) on
December 30, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019.

Viebeck, Elise; Markon, Jerry; DeYoung, Karen (November 14, 2016). "Trump, Putin agree in
phone call to improve ‘unsatisfactory’ relations between their countries, Kremlin says" (https://ww
w.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/11/1 44rump-faces-backlash-over-appointing-ban
non-as-a-top-aide-a-choice-critics-say-will-empower-white-nationalists/). The Washington Post
Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 7031 7013747/https:/Awww.washingtonpost.com/news/po
werpost/wp/2016/11/1 4/4rump-faces-backlash-over-appointing-bannon-as-a-top-aide-a-choice-criti
cs-say-will-empower-white-nationalists/) from the original on March 17, 2017. Retrieved March 14,
2017.

Conradi, Peter (January 13, 2017). "Trump and Putin's Bromance Could Change the World" (http
s:/Iwww.gq-magazine.co.uk/articleArump-putin-bromance). GQ. Archived (https://web.archive.org/
web/201 70201103228/htip:/Avww.gq-magazine.co. uk/articleArump-putin-bromance) from the
original on February 1, 2017. Retrieved May 29, 2017.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 20/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

33.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

Colvin, Jill (July 7, 2017). "Have Trump and Putin met before? It depends when you asked" (http
s://apnews.com/article/entertainment-europe-united-states-government-ff6f 1043 180d490bb1f3c3d
07fa26d45). Associated Press. Retrieved March 3, 2018.

Nesbit, Jeff (August 15, 2016). "Donald Trump's Many, Many, Many, Many Ties to Russia" (https://t
ime.com/4433880/donald-trump-ties-to-russia/). Time. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/2017
0228022233/http ://Atime.com/4433880/donald-trump-ties-to-russia/) from the original on February
28, 2017. Retrieved February 28, 2017.

Olearchyk, Roman (August 28, 2016). "Ukraine's Leaders Campaign against 'Pro-Putin' Trump" (h
ttps://www.ft.com/content/c980 78d0-6ae7-1166-a0b1 -d87a9fea034f). Financial Times. London.
Archived (https://web. archive.org/web/20210215025853/https :/Awww.ft.com/content/c980 78d0-6ae
7-11e6-a0b1 -d87a9fea034f) from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved May 31, 2017. "The
prospect of Mr Trump ... becoming leader of the country's biggest ally has spurred not just Mr
Leshchenko but Kiev's wider political leadership to do something they would never have
attempted before: intervene, however indirectly, in a US election."

Williams, Katie Bo (May 24, 2017). "NYT: Russians discussed using Manafort, Flynn to influence
Trump" (https:/Ahehill.com/policy/national-security/335035-nyt-russians-discussed-using-manafort-
flynn-to-influence-trump/). The Hill. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 7052501 4629/http://t
hehill.com/policy/national-security/335035-nyt-russians-discussed-using-manafort-flynn-to-influenc
e-trump) from the original on May 25, 2017. Retrieved May 28, 2017.

Mazzetti, Michael S. Schmidt, Mark; Apuzzo, Matt (February 14, 2017). "Trump Campaign Aides
Had Repeated Contacts With Russian Intelligence" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/201 7/02/1 4/us/politi
cs/russia-intelligence-communications-trump.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.arc
hive.org/web/201 70302025649/https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/02/1 4/us/politics/russia-intelligence
-communications-trump.html) from the original on March 2, 2017. Retrieved May 30, 2017.

Parker, Ned; Landay, Jonathan; Strobel, Warren (May 18, 2017). "Exclusive: Trump campaign had
at least 18 undisclosed contacts with Russians: sources" (https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-tr
ump-russia-contacts-id USKCN18E106). Reuters. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70518
232041 /http:/www.reuters.con/article/us-usa-trump-russia-contacts-id USKCN18E1 06) from the
original on May 18, 2017. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

Harris, Shane (July 12, 2017). "Russian Officials Overheard Discussing Trump Associates Before
Campaign Began" (https://Awww.wsj.com/articles/russian-officials-overheard-discussing-trump-asso
ciates-before-campaign-began-1499890354). The Wall Street Journal. Archived (https:/Aweb.archi
ve.org/web/201 70712201 735/https://www.wsj.com/article_email/russian-officials-overheard-discus
sing-trump-associates-before-campaign-began-1499890354-IMyQjAxMT ISMjES5MjExMzlowj/)
from the original on July 12, 2017. Retrieved July 13, 2017.

Mindock, Clark (July 12, 2017). "US intelligence 'overheard Russian officials mention meetings
with Trump associates in 2015'" (https:/Avww.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/
rump-russia-meetings-associates-officials-us-intelligence-campaign-latest-a 7838296.html). The
Independent. Archived (https://ghostarchive.org/archive/2022061 4/https ://www.independent.co.uk/
news/world/americas/us-politics4rump-russia-meetings-associates-officials-us-intelligence-campai
gn-latest-a7838296. html) from the original on June 14, 2022. Retrieved July 13, 2017.

Schmidt, Michael S.; Mazzetti, Mark; Apuzzo, Matt (February 14, 2017). "Trump Campaign Aides
Had Repeated Contacts With Russian Intelligence" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/201 7/02/1 4/us/politi
cs/russia-intelligence-communications-trump.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.arc
hive.org/web/201 70302025649/https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/02/1 4/us/politics/russia-intelligence
-communications-trump.html) from the original on March 2, 2017. Retrieved March 2, 2017.

Sommer, Will (March 11, 2017). "Diplomats warn of Russia hysteria" (https:/Ahehill.com/homenew
s/administration/323479-diplomats-warn-of-russia-hysteria/). The Hill, Retrieved March 13, 2017.

21/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

40.

Al,

42.

43.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

Balluck, Kyle (March 12, 2017). "Kremlin spokesman: Russian ambassador met with advisers to
Clinton campaign too" (https://thehill.com/policy/international/323582-kremlin-spokesman-russian-
ambassador-met-with-advisers-to-clinton/). The Hill. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/202102
1502581 5/https://thehill.com/policy/international/323582-kremlin-spokesman-russian-ambassador-
met-with-advisers-to-clinton) from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved March 13, 2017.

Kelly, John; Reilly, Steve (March 2, 2017). "Trump team issued at least 20 denials of contacts with
Russia" (https:/Awww.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/201 7/03/02/trump-teams-many-many-denia
Is-contacts-russia/98625 780/). USA Today. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 7031220033
4/http://www. usatoday.com/story/news/politics/201 7/03/02/trump-teams-many-many-denials-conta
cts-russia/98625/780/) from the original on March 12, 2017. Retrieved March 13, 2017.

Cohen, Marshall (June 20, 2018). "False denials, misleading statements and faulty memories
behind Trump-Russia meetings" (https://www.cnn.com/2018/06/20/politics/russian-dirt-meetings/in
dex.html). CNN. Retrieved November 29, 2021.

Kiely, Eugene; Farley, Robert; Robertson, Lori (October 31, 2017). "Fact check: False statements
on Russia from the Trump team" (https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/201 7/10/31 Aact-ch
eck-false-statements-russia-trump-team/816590001/). USA Today. Retrieved November 29, 2021.

Miller, Greg; Entous, Adam (February 24, 2017). "Trump administration sought to enlist
intelligence officials, key lawmakers to counter Russia stories" (https:/Awww.washingtonpost.com/
world/national-securityArump-administration-sought-to-enlist-intelligence-officials-key-lawmakers-t
o-counter-russia-stories/201 7/02/24/c8487552-fa99-11e6-be05-1a3817ac21a5_story.html). The
Washington Post. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70301130011 /https ://www.washington
post.com/world/national-security/trump-administration-sought-to-enlist-intelligence -officials-key-la
wmakers-to-counter-russia-stories/201 7/02/24/c848 7552-fa99-11e6-be05-1a381/7ac21a5_story.ht
ml) from the original on March 1, 2017. Retrieved March 2, 2017.

Nakashima, Ellen; Entous, Adam; Miller, Greg (May 26, 2017). "Russian ambassador told Moscow
that Kushner wanted secret communications channel with Kremlin" (https:/Avww.washingtonpost.c
om/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-secret-commu

nications-channel-with-kremlin/201 7/05/26/520a1 4b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html).
The Washington Post. Archived (https://Aweb.archive.org/web/201 7052700121 5/https://Awww. washi

ngtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-sec
ret-communications-channel-with-kremlin/201 7/05/26/520a1 4b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_
story.html) from the original on May 27, 2017. Retrieved May 27, 2017.

Haberman, Maggie (March 21, 2017). "Roger Stone, the 'Trickster' on Trump's Side, Is Under
F.B.I. Scrutiny" (https :/Avww.nytimes.com/201 7/03/21 /us/roger-stone-donald-trump-russia. html).
The New York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 705240108 15/https:/Avww.nytime
s.com/201 7/03/21/us/roger-stone-donald-trump-russia.html) from the original on May 24, 2017.
Retrieved April 18, 2017.

Mazzetti, Mark; Apuzzo, Matt; Haberman, Maggie (May 26, 2017). "Kushner Is Said to Have
Discussed a Secret Channel to Talk to Russia" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/201 7/05/26/us/politics/ku
shner-talked-to-russian-envoy-about-creating-secret-channel-with-kremlin.html). The New York
Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/202 102091 94321 /https:/Awww.nytimes.com/201 7/05/
26/us/politics/kushner-talked-to-russian-envoy-about-creating-secret-channel-with-kremlin. html)
from the original on February 9, 2021. Retrieved May 27, 2017.

Dilanian, Ken (March 16, 2017). "Clinton Ally Says Smoke, But No Fire: No Russia-Trump
Collusion" (https:/Awww.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/clinton-ally-says-smoke-no-fire-no-russia-tru
mp-collusion-n7341 76). NBC News. Retrieved March 16, 2017.

"Full transcript: Sally Yates and James Clapper testify on Russian election interference" (htips://v
ww.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politicsAvp/201 7/05/08 Aull-transcript-sally-yates-and-james-cla
pper-testify-on-russian-election-interference/). The Washington Post May 8, 2017. Retrieved
February 28, 2022.

22/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

AA,

45.

46.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

Kayyem, Juliette (May 8, 2017). "Clapper: Putin did it to demean Clinton and help elect Trump" (htt
ps:/Awww.cnn.com/201 7/05/08/opinions/yates-was-headliner-but-clapper-stole-the-show-kayyem/).
CNN. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

Benner, Katie; Fandos, Nicholas; Schmidt, Michael S.; Goldman, Adam (June 11, 2021). "Hunting
Leaks, Trump Officials Focused on Democrats in Congress" (https:/Awww.nytimes.com/2021/06/1
0/us/politicsjustice-department-leaks-trump-administration.html). The New York Times. Retrieved
December 22, 2022.

Jalonick, Mary Clare; Balsamo, Michael (June 11, 2021). "Trump DOJ seized data from House
Democrats in leaks probe" (https://apnews.com/article/government-and-politics-donald-trump-5b6t
6bfOdaf8bccf106a90d21f52686c). Associated Press. Retrieved February 28, 2022.

Knutson, Jacob (June 11, 2021). "Justice Department watchdog opens internal probe into House
Dems data subpoenas" (https://www.axios.com/2021/06/11/deputy-ag-doj-watchdog-trump-house-
subpoenas). Axios. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

LaFraniere, Sharon; Benner, Katie (March 22, 2019). "Mueller Delivers Report on Trump-Russia
Investigation to Attorney General" (https:/Awww.nytimes.com/2019/03/22/us/politics/mueller-report.
html). The New York Times. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/wveb/20190325061158/https:/Avww.n
ytimes.com/2019/03/22/us/politics/mueller-report.html) from the original on March 25, 2019.
Retrieved March 24, 2019.

Megerian, Chris (April 18, 2019). "Mueller finds no conspiracy, but report shows Trump welcomed
Russian help" (https :/Avww. latimes.com/politics/la-na-pol-mueller-report-trump-russia-collusion-20
190418-story.html). Los Angeles Times. Retrieved December 10, 2019.

Turley, Jonathan (December 9, 2019). "Horowitz report is damning for the FBI and unsettling for
the rest of us" (https:/Ahehill.com/opinion/judiciary/473 709-horowitz-report-is-damning-for-the-fbi-a
nd-unsettling-for-the-rest-of-us/). The Hilf, Retrieved December 22, 2022.

Benen, Steve (December 9, 2019). "DOU investigation shreds Trump's claims about FBI, Russia
probe" (https:/Awww.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow-show/doj-investigation-shreds-trumps-claims-abo
ut-fbi-russia-probe-msna1312381). MSNBC. Archived (https://web.archive. org/web/202102150258
27/https://www.msnbc.com/rachel-maddow-show/doj-investigation-shreds-trumps-claims-about-fbi
-russia-probe-msna1312381) from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved December 22,
2022.

"Review of Four FISA Applications and Other Aspects of the FBI's Crossfire Hurricane
Investigation" (https:/Awww.justice.gov/storage/1209 19-examination.pdf) (PDF). Oversight and
Review Division 20-012. December 2019. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/2019121100182
6/https://www.justice.gov/storage/120919-examination.pdf) (PDF) from the original on December
11, 2019. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

Coleman, Justine (December 2, 2019). "Barr rejects key finding in report on Russia probe: report"
(https ://thehill.com/homenews/administration/4 72 720-barr-rejects-key-finding-in-report-on-russia-p
robe-report/). The Hill. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

Miles, Frank (December 9, 2019). "Trump reacts to DOJ watchdog Horowitz's report, says what
was done to America was a ‘disgrace’ " (https:/Awww.foxnews.com/politics/its-a-disgrace-trump-co
mments-on-doj-watchdog-horowitz-report). Fox News. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

Gerstein, John (August 18, 2020). "Roger Stone drops appeals of felony convictions" (https:/Avww.
politico.com/news/2020/08/18/roger-stone-felony-appeal-397548). Politico. Retrieved August 18,
2020.

Beavers, Olivia (August 18, 2020). "Senate report describes closer ties between 2016 Trump
campaign, Russia" (https://thehill.com/policy/national-security/512487-senate-panel-releases-final-
report-on-russian-interference-detailing/). TheHilf. Retrieved August 18, 2020.

"GOP operative found guilty of funneling Russian money to Donald Trump" (https:/Avww.washingto
npost.com/dc-md-va/2022/11/17/benton-trump-russian-vasilenko-guilty/). The Washington Post
ISSN 0190-8286 (https://search.worldcat.org/issn/0 190-8286). Retrieved November 18, 2022.

23/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

58.

59.

60.

61.

62.

63.

64.

65.

66.

67.

68.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

Chen, Shawna (November 18, 2022). "GOP operative convicted in scheme to funnel Russian
money into Trump campaign" (https:/Avww.axios.com/2022/11/18/trump-campaign-jesse-benton-ru
ssia). Axios. Retrieved November 18, 2022.

"Political Consultant Convicted for Scheme Involving Illegal Foreign Campaign Contribution to
2016 Presidential Campaign" (https://Awww.justice.gov/opa/pr/political-consultant-convicted-schem
e-involving-illegal-foreign-campaign-contribution-2016). www justice.gov. November 17, 2022.
Retrieved November 18, 2022.

Lowell, Hugo (March 15, 2023). "Federal investigators examined Trump Media for possible money
laundering, sources say" (https:/Avww.theguardian.com/us-news/2023/mar/15Arump-media-investi
gated-possible-money-laundering). The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077 (https://search.worldcat.org/is
sn/0261-3077). Retrieved March 15, 2023.

Durkee, Alison. "Trump's Media Company Reportedly Under Federal Investigation For Money
Laundering Linked To Russia" (https://www.forbes.com/sites/alisondurkee/2023/03/1 54rumps-med
ia-company-reportedly-under-federal-investigation-for-money-laundering-linked-to-russia/).
Forbes. Retrieved March 15, 2023.

Mark Mazzetti; Matthew Rosenberg (May 23, 2017). "Michael Flynn Misled Pentagon About
Russia Ties, Letter Says" (https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/05/22/us/politics/michael-flynn-fifth-ame
ndment-russia-senate.html). The New York Times. p. A1. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20
180118195849/https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/05/22/us/politics/michael-flynn-fifth-amendment-rus
sia-senate. html) from the original on January 18, 2018. Retrieved May 24, 2017.

Huetteman, Emmarie; Rosenberg, Matthew (April 27, 2017). "Pentagon Inquiry Seeks to Learn if
Flynn Hid Foreign Payment" (https:/Avww. nytimes.com/201 7/04/2 7/us/politics/michael-flynn-trump-
investigation-defense-department.html). The New York Times. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/w
eb/201 7050112291 7/https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/04/27/us/politics/michael-flynn-trump-investig
ation-defense-department. html) from the original on May 1, 2017. Retrieved June 1, 2017.

Day, Chad; Braun, Stephen (May 22, 2017). "Flynn rejects Trump-Russia probe subpoena; Dems
say he lied" (https://web.archive.org/web/201 706011 70025/htips ://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireSt
ory/key-lawmakers-vow-full-airing-reasons-comey-firing-47554063). ABC News. Archived from the
original (htips://abcnews.go.com/Politics/wireStory/key-lawmakers-vow-full-airing-reasons-comey-f
iring-47554063) on June 1, 2017. Retrieved June 1, 2017.

Dovere, Edward-Isaac; Nussbaum, Matthew (May 8, 2017). "Obama warned Trump about Flynn,
officials say" (https://www.politico.com/story/201 7/05/08/obama-warn-trump-michael-flynn-238 1 1
6). Politico. Archived (https://web.archive. org/web/201 7111807391 7/https://www.politico.com/story/
201 7/05/08/obama-warn-trump-michael-flynn-238116) from the original on November 18, 2017.
Retrieved May 24, 2017.

Shear, Michael D. (May 8, 2017). "Obama Warned Trump About Hiring Flynn, Officials Say" (http
s://www.nytimes.com/201 7/05/08/us/politics/obama-flynn-trump.html). The New York Times.
Archived (https://web. archive.org/web/20210215025820/https :/Avww. nytimes.com/201 7/05/08/us/p
olitics/obama-flynn-trump.html) from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved May 24, 2017.

Dilanian, Ken (February 10, 2017). "Official: Flynn Discussed Sanctions With Russians Before
Taking Office" (https:/Avww.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/official-flynn-discussed-sanctions-russian
s-taking-office-n719271). NBC News. Archived (https://Aweb.archive.org/web/20170302064420/http
s:/Awww.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/official-flynn-discussed-sanctions-russians-taking-office-n7 1
9271) from the original on March 2, 2017. Retrieved March 2, 2017.

Murray, Sara; Borger, Gloria; Diamond, Jeremy (February 14, 2017). "Flynn resigns amid
controversy over Russia contacts" (http:/Avww.cnn.com/201 7/02/13/politics/michael-flynn-white-ho
use-national-security-adviser/). CNN. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70301195824/htt
p://www.cnn.com/201 7/02/13/politics/michael-flynn-white-house-national-security-adviser/) from
the original on March 1, 2017. Retrieved March 2, 2017.

24/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

69. Schmidt, Michael S.; Rosenberg, Matthew; Apuzzo, Matt (March 2, 2017). "Kushner and Flynn
Met With Russian Envoy in December, White House Says" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/201 7/03/02/
us/politics/kushner-flynn-sessions-russia.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.archiv
e.org/web/201 7030303455 7/https ://www.nytimes.com/201 7/03/02/us/politics/kushner-flynn-sessio
ns-russia. html) from the original on March 3, 2017. Retrieved March 3, 2017.

70. Williams, Katie Bo (May 31, 2017). "Seven subpoenas issued in House Russia probe" (https://theh
ill.com/policy/national-security/335833-seven-subpoenas-issued-in-house-russia-probe-report/).
TheHill. Retrieved June 1, 2017.

71. LoBianco, Tom; Herb, Jeremy; Walsh, Deirdre (May 31, 2017). "House intelligence panel
subpoenas Flynn, Cohen; seeks 'unmasking' docs" (http ://edition.cnn.com/201 7/05/31 /politics/nou
se-russia-investigators-subpoena-flynn-cohen/index. html). CNN. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/
web/202 10215025828/https://edition.cnn.com/201 7/05/31 /politics/nouse-russia-investigators-subp
oena-flynn-cohen/index.html) from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved May 4, 2018.

72. Stewart, Christopher S.; Barry, Rob; Harris, Shane (September 13, 2017). "Flynn Promoted
Nuclear-Plant Project While in White House" (https:/Awww.wsj.com/articles/ilynn-promoted-nuclear
-plant-project-while-in-white-house-1505328226). The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved
September 14, 2017.

73. Crilly, Rob (September 13, 2017). "Michael Flynn accused of promoting nuclear power project in
Middle East while he worked at White House" (https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/201 7/09/13/mich
ael-flynn-accused-promoting-nuclear-power-project-middle/). The Telegraph. Archived (https://we
b.archive.org/web/20180411082620/https:/Awww.telegraph.co.uk/news/201 7/09/13/michael-flynn-a
ccused-promoting-nuclear-power-project-middle/) from the original on April 11, 2018. Retrieved
April 5, 2018.

74. Leopold, Jason; McDaniel, Chris; Cormier, Anthony (September 15, 2017). "Trump Advisers
Secretly Met With Jordan's King While One Was Pushing A Huge Nuclear Power Deal" (https:/Avw
w.buzzfeednews.com/article/jasonleopold/trump-advisors-secretly-met-with-jordans-king-while-one
-was). BuzzFeed News. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/202102 150258 1 2/https ://www.buzz
feednews.com/article/jasonleopold/Arump-advisors-secretly-met-with-jordans-king-while-one-was)
from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved September 16, 2017.

75. "Former national security adviser Michael Flynn pleads guilty to lying to FBI in Russia probe" (htt
p://www.abc.net.au/news/201 7-12-02/donald-trump-michael-flynn-pleads-guilty-lying-fbi-russia-pro
be/9219018). ABC News. Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Reuters. December 2, 2017.
Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20210215025824/ntips:/Awww.abc. net.au/news/201 7-12-02/
donald-trump-michael-flynn-pleads-guilty-lying-fbi-russia-probe/92 19018) from the original on
February 15, 2021. Retrieved February 6, 2017.

76. Haberman, Maggie; Schmidt, Michael S. (December 22, 2020). "Trump Pardons Two Russia
Inquiry Figures and Blackwater Guards" (https://www.nytimes.com/2020/12/22/us/politicsArump-pa
rdons.html). The New York Times. Retrieved December 22, 2020.

77. Horwitz, Sari; Zapotosky, Matt; Entous, Adam (June 15, 2017). "Special counsel is investigating
Jared Kushner's business dealings" (https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/spec
ial-counsel-is-investigating-jared-kushners-business-dealings/201 7/06/15/5d9a32c6-51f2-11e7-91
eb-9611861a988t_story.html). The Washington Post. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70
822180716/https:/Avww.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/special-counsel-is-investigati
ng-jared-kushners-business-dealings/201 7/06/15/5d9a32c6-51f2-11e7-91eb-9611861a988t_story.
html) from the original on August 22, 2017. Retrieved June 17, 2017.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 25/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

78.

79.

80.

81.

82.

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

Filipov, David; Brittain, Amy; Helderman, Rosalind S.; Hamburger, Tom (June 1, 2017).
"Explanations for Kushner's meeting with head of Kremlin-linked bank don't match up" (https:/Aww
w.washingtonpost.com/politics/explanations-for-kushners-meeting-with-head-of-kremlin-linked-ban
k-dont-match-up/201 7/06/01/dd1 bdbb0-460a-11e7-bcde-624ad941 70ab_story.html). The
Washington Post. Archived (htips://web.archive.org/web/201 70615022243/https :/Awww.washington
post.com/politics/explanations-for-kushners-meeting-with-head-of-kremlin-linked-bank-dont-match
-up/201 7/06/01/dd1bdbb0-460a-11e7-bcde-624ad941 70ab_story.html) from the original on June
15, 2017. Retrieved June 17, 2017.

Dilanian, Ken; Alexander, Peter; Kube, Courtney (May 26, 2017). "Jared Kushner Under Scrutiny
in Russia Probe, Officials Say" (https:/Avww.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/jared-kushner-now-unde
r-fbi-scrutiny-russia-probe-say-officials-n764826). NBC News. Archived (https://web.archive.org/w
eb/201 705252341 46/https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/jared-kushner-now-under-fbi-scruti
ny-russia-probe-say-officials-n764826) from the original on May 25, 2017. Retrieved October 7,
2019.

Rosenberg, Matthew; Mazzetti, Mark; Haberman, Maggie (May 29, 2017). "Investigation Turns to
Kushner's Motives in Meeting With a Putin Ally" (https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/05/29/us/politics/ja
red-kushner-russia-investigation.html). The New York Times. Retrieved May 30, 2017.

Wilkinson, Tracy (November 6, 2017). "Commerce secretary's financial ties to Putin allies draw
scrutiny" (http:/Avww.latimes.com/nation/la-na-pol-ross-russians-20171106-story.html). Los
Angeles Times. Retrieved November 7, 2017.

Arkhipov, Ilya; Donahue, Patrick (January 17, 2017). "Trump Aide Talks Investment With
Sanctioned Kremlin Fund" (https:/Avww.bloomberg.com/news/articles/201 7-01 -1 7/in-davos-trump-
aide-talks-deals-with-sanctioned-kremlin-fund). Bloomberg L.P. Archived (htips://web.archive.org/
web/201 7062 7010259/https:/Avww.bloomberg.com/news/articles/201 7-01-17/in-davos-trump-aide-
talks-deals-with-sanctioned-kremlin-fund) from the original on June 27, 2017. Retrieved July 29,
2017.

Stelter, Brian (June 26, 2017). "CNN employees resign after retracted article" (https://money.cnn.c
om/2017/06/26/media/cnn-announcement-retracted-article/index.html). CNNMoney. Retrieved
July 29, 2017.

Entous, Adam; Nakashima, Ellen; Miller, Greg (March 1, 2017). "Sessions met with Russian envoy
twice last year, encounters he later did not disclose" (https:/Awww.washingtonpost.com/world/natio
nal-security/sessions-spoke-twice-with-russian-ambassador-during-trumps-presidential-campaign-
justice-officials-say/20 1 7/03/01/77205eda-feac-11¢e6-99b4-9e613afebO9f_story.html). The
Washington Post. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70302021 148/https://www.washington
post.com/world/national-security/sessions-spoke-twice-with-russian-ambassador-during-trumps-pr
esidential-campaign-justice-officials-say/201 7/03/01/77205eda-feac-1166-99b4-9e613afebO9t_sto
ry.html) from the original on March 2, 2017. Retrieved March 2, 2017.

Lichtblau, Eric; Shear, Michael D.; Savage, Charlie; Apuzzo, Matt; Haberman, Maggie; Schmidt,
Michael S. (March 2, 2017). "Jeff Sessions Recuses Himself From Russia Inquiry" (https:/Avww.ny
times.com/201 7/03/02/us/politics/jeft-sessions-russia-trump-investigation-democrats.html). The
New York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 7030222301 4/https://www.nytimes.co
m/2017/03/02/us/politics/jetf-sessions-russia-trump-investigation-democrats. html) from the original
on March 2, 2017. Retrieved May 30, 2017.

Schmidt, Michael S. (January 23, 2018). "Sessions Is Interviewed in Mueller's Russia
Investigation" (https://jwww.nytimes.com/20 18/01/23/us/politics/jetf-sessions-special-counsel-russi
a.html). The New York Times. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/2018030309581 6/https ://ww
w.nytimes.com/2018/01/23/us/politics/jeff-sessions-special-counsel-russia. html) from the original
on March 3, 2018. Retrieved January 23, 2018.

Gerstein, Josh (January 23, 2018). "Mueller's team interviews Sessions in Russia probe" (https://w

ww. politico.com/story/2018/01/23/mueller-team-interviews-jeff-sessions-3590 76). Politico.
Retrieved January 23, 2018.

26/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

88. Olson, Bradley (December 6, 2016). "Rex Tillerson, a Candidate for Secretary of State, Has Ties
to Vladimir Putin" (https:/Awww.wsj.com/articles/donald-trump-candidate-for-state-has-close-ties-to
-viadimir-putin-1481033938). The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved July 13, 2017.

89. Ormiston, Susan (April 11, 2017). "Will Tillerson's Russian medal of honour pay dividends now?"
(http:/Avww.cbc.ca/news/world/rex-tillerson-russia-syria-1.4064436). CBC News. Archived (https://
web.archive.org/web/20210215025857/https://www.cbc.ca/news/world/rex-tillerson-russia-syria-1.
4064436) from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved July 13, 2017.

90. Egan, Matt; Horowitz, Julia; Isidore, Chris (December 11, 2016). "Behind the deep ties between
Exxon's Rex Tillerson and Russia" (https://money.cnn.com/201 6/12/11 /investing/rex-tillerson-exxo
n-russia-putin/index.html). CNNMoney. Retrieved July 13, 2017.

91. Stevenson, Peter W. (June 1, 2017). "Which Trump associates are being investigated by
Congress? A running list" (https:/Avwww.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/201 7/05/31 /which-tru
mp-associates-are-being-investigated-by-congress-a-running-list/). The Washington Post.
Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20210215025843/ntips:/Avww.washingtonpost.com/news/th
e-fix/wp/2017/05/3 1/which-trump-associates-are-being-investigated-by-congress-a-running-list/)
from the original on February 15, 2021. Retrieved June 7, 2017.

92. Levintova, Hannah; Vicens, AJ; Dejeanjun, Ashley (June 1, 2017). "Hacker, Banker, Soldier, Spy:
A Guide to the Key Players in the Trump-Russia Scandal" (https:/Avww.motherjones.com/politics/2
017/06/russia-trump-putin-scandal-key-players-dossiers/). Mother Jones. Archived (https://web.arc
hive.org/web/201 70626035641 /http:/Awww.motherjones.com/politics/20 1 7/06/russia-trump-putin-sc
andal-key-players-dossiers/) from the original on June 26, 2017. Retrieved June 8, 2017.

93. Nance, Malcolm (October 10, 2016). "4. Trump's Agents, Putin's Assets; The Kremlin Crew; The
Americans in the Pocket". The Plot to Hack America: How Putin's Cyberspies and WikiLeaks Tried
to Steal the 2016 Election. Skyhorse Publishing. ISBN 978-1510723320.

94. Tan, Sandra (March 5, 2016). "The radical adventures of conservative radio host Mike Caputo" (hit
ps://buffalonews.com/20 16/03/05/he-radical-adventures-of-conservative-radio-host-mike-caputo/).
The Buffalo News. Retrieved June 8, 2017.

95. Hernandez, Javier C. (September 24, 2010). "The Provocateur Loading Paladino's Slingshot" (http
s:/www.nytimes.com/2010/09/25/nyregion/25caputo.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://
web.archive.org/web/201 7060323221 5/http :/Awww.nytimes.com/2010/09/25/nyregion/25caputo.ht
ml) from the original on June 3, 2017. Retrieved June 7, 2017.

96. Barbaro, Michael (September 28, 2010). "Paladino Has Aides With Tainted Pasts" (https:/Avww.nyt
imes.com/2010/09/29/nyregion/29advisers.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web. archi
ve.org/web/201 7051122201 6/hitp://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/29/nyregion/29advisers.html) from
the original on May 11, 2017. Retrieved June 8, 2017.

97. Treyz, Catherine; Acosta, Jim (May 21, 2017). "House panel looks at Trump campaign
communications adviser for Russia ties" (http://edition.cnn.com/201 7/05/21 /politics/caputo-house-r
ussia-probe/index.html). CNN. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20170526111945/http://editio
n.cnn.com/201 7/05/21 /politics/caputo-house-russia-probe/index.html) from the original on May 26,
2017. Retrieved June 7, 2017.

98. Vazquez, Maegan; Westwood, Sarah; Sanchez, Boris (June 17, 2018). "Former Trump operative
Roger Stone met with Russian who wanted $2M for Clinton dirt" (https:/Avww.cnn.com/2018/06/1
7/politics/roger-stone-henry-greenberg-michael-caputo/index.html). CNN. Archived (https://web.arc
hive.org/web/20180619222747/https://www.cnn.com/2018/06/1 7/politics/roger-stone-henry-greenb
erg-michael-caputo/index.html) from the original on June 19, 2018. Retrieved June 20, 2018.

99. "Caputo forgot, then remembered Russia meeting - CNN Video" (https:/Avww.cnn.com/videos/polit
ics/2018/06/18/michael-caputo-former-trump-campaign-official-russia-meeting-sot-ebof.cnn). Erin
Burnett OutFront. CNN. June 18, 2018. Archived (https://Aweb.archive.org/web/20180619135842/ht
tps:/Avww.cnn.com/videos/politics/2018/06/18/michael-caputo-former-trump-campaign-official-russ
ia-meeting-sot-ebof.cnn) from the original on June 19, 2018. Retrieved June 20, 2018.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 27/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

100.

101.

102.

103.

104.

105.

106.

107.

108.

109.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

Rosenberg, Matthew; Goldman, Adam; Apuzzo, Matt (May 24, 2017). "Top Russian Officials
Discussed How to Influence Trump Aides Last Summer" (https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/05/24/us/
politics/russia-trump-manafort-flynn.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/
web/201 7053005111 6/https://Awww. nytimes.com/201 7/05/24/us/politics/russia-trump-manafort-flyn
n.html) from the original on May 30, 2017. Retrieved May 30, 2017.

Gurman, Sadie; Tucker, Eric; Horwitz, Jeff (June 3, 2017). "Special Counsel Mueller's investigation
seems to be growing" (https://apnews.com/article/moscow-paul-manafort-north-america-donald-tr
ump-ap-top-news-2fa69c11399c485e96cc312f7a5039ec). Associated Press. Retrieved

February 28, 2022.

Perez, Evan; Prokupecz, Shimon; Brown, Pamela (September 18, 2017). "Exclusive: US
government wiretapped former Trump campaign chairman" (http:/Awww.cnn.com/201 7/09/18/politic
s/paul-manafort-government-wiretapped-fisa-russians/index.html). CNN. Archived (https:/Aveb.arc
hive.org/web/201 70918235603/http ://www.cnn.com/201 7/09/18/politics/paul-manafort-government
-wiretapped-fisa-russians/index.html) from the original on September 18, 2017. Retrieved
September 19, 2017.

Perez, Evan; Herb, Jeremy (October 30, 2017). "Manafort, Gates charged with conspiracy against
US" (http :/Avww.cnn.com/201 7/10/30/politics/paul-manafort-russia-investigation-surrender/index. ht
ml). CNN. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 71030120346/http ://Awww.cnn.com/201 7/10/3
0/politics/paul-manafort-russia-investigation-surrender/index.html) from the original on October 30,
2017. Retrieved October 30, 2017.

Savage, Charlie (October 30, 2017). "What It Means: The Indictment of Manafort and Gates" (http
s://www.nytimes.com/201 7/10/30/us/politics/special-counsel-indictments.html). The New York
Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20201203202833/https:/Awww.nytimes.com/201 7/10/
30/us/politics/special-counsel-indictments. html) from the original on December 3, 2020. Retrieved
October 30, 2017.

Harris, Andrew M. (October 30, 2017). "Manafort, Gates Placed Under House Arrest After Not

Guilty Pleas" (https://vww.bloomberg.com/news/articles/20 1 7-10-30/manafort-gates-placed-under
-house-arrest-after-not-guilty-pleas). Bloomberg. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 71030
184352/https ://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/201 7-10-30/manafort-gates-placed-under-hous
e-arrest-after-not-guilty-pleas) from the original on October 30, 2017. Retrieved October 30, 2017.

Connor, Tracy; Abou-Sabe, Kenzi; Dilanian, Ken (February 22, 2018). "New indictment hits Paul
Manafort and Rick Gates with tax and bank fraud charges" (https:/Avww.nbcnews.com/politics/polit
ics-news/new-indictment-hits-manafort-gates-tax-bank-fraud-charges-n850411). NBC News.
Archived (https://web. archive.org/web/20180224063049/https :/Avww.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-
news/new-indictment-hits-manafort-gates-tax-bank-fraud-charges-n850411) from the original on
February 24, 2018. Retrieved February 24, 2018.

Polantz, Katelyn; Cohen, Marshall; Scannell, Kara (February 23, 2018). "New indictment accuses
Manafort of paying European politicians" (https:/Avww.cnn.com/2018/02/23/politics/manafort-muell
er/index.html). CNN. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/20180223233746/https:/Avww.cnn.co
m/2018/02/23/politics/manatort-mueller/index.html) from the original on February 23, 2018.
Retrieved February 24, 2018.

"Ex-Trump Campaign Aide Manafort To Cooperate With Russia Probe, In Mueller investigation" (ht
tps://web.archive.org/web/20180915070728/htips://headlinestoday.org/international/2833/ex-trump
-campaign-aide-manafort-to-cooperate-with-russia-probe-in-muller-investigation/). Headlines
Today. Archived from the original (https ://neadlinestoday. org/international/2833/ex-trump-campaig
n-aide-manafort-to-cooperate-with-russia-probe-in-muller-investigation/) on September 15, 2018.
Retrieved September 15, 2018.

Lafraniere, Sharon (November 27, 2018). "Manafort Breached Plea Deal by Repeatedly Lying,
Mueller Says" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/2018/11/26/us/politics/mueller-paul-manafort-cooperation.
html). The New York Times. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/20181127000906/https:/Avww.n
ytimes.com/2018/11/26/us/politics/mueller-paul-manafort-cooperation.html) from the original on
November 27, 2018. Retrieved November 27, 2018.

28/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

110. Polantz, Katelyn; Cohen, Marshall (December 8, 2018). "Mueller: Paul Manafort lied about
contacts with Trump administration this year" (https:/Awww.cnn.com/2018/12/07/politics/paul-manat
ort-robert-mueller-donald-trump/index.html). CNN. Archived (https://web. archive.org/web/2018120
8002044 /https://Awww.cnn.com/2018/12/07/politics/paul-manafort-robert-mueller-donald-trump/inde
x.html) from the original on December 8, 2018. Retrieved December 8, 2018.

111. Polantz, Katelyn (January 8, 2019). "Mueller believes Manafort fed information to Russian with
intel ties" (https://Awww.cnn.com/2019/01/08/politics/manafort-russia-court-deadline/index. html).
CNN. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201901090001 25/https ://Awww.cnn.com/2019/01/08/p
olitics/manafort-russia-court-deadline/index.html) from the original on January 9, 2019. Retrieved
January 9, 2019.

112. Confessore, Nicholas; Meier, Barry (June 16, 2017). "How the Russia Investigation Entangled a
Manafort Protégé" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/201 7/06/1 G/us/politics/rick-gates-russia.html). The
New York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 71030212115/https:/Awww.nytimes.co
m/201 7/06/1 6/us/politics/rick-gates-russia.html) from the original on October 30, 2017. Retrieved
July 13, 2017.

113. Hamburger, Tom (March 22, 2017). "Manafort is gone, but his business associate remains a key
part of Trump's operation" (https:/Avww.washingtonpost.com/politics/manaftort-is-gone-but-his-busi
ness-associate-remains-a-key-part-of-trumps-operation/201 7/03/22/6ecbaa96-0f0f-11e7-9b0d-d27
098455440 _story.html). The Washington Post. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/201 7072016
4705/https:/Avww. washingtonpost.com/politics/manaftort-is-gone-but-his-business-associate-remai
ns-a-key-part-of-trumps-operation/201 7/03/22/6ecbaa96-0f0f-11e7-9b0d-d27c98455440_story.htm
1) from the original on July 20, 2017. Retrieved July 13, 2017.

114. Landers, Elizabeth; Diamond, Jeremy (March 23, 2017). "Gates out at nonprofit over Manafort-
Russia ties" (http :/Avww.cnn.com/201 7/03/23/politics/rick-gates-manafort-russia-ties/index. html).
CNN. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70720060251 /http:/Awww.cnn.com/201 7/03/23/poli
tics/rick-gates-manafort-russia-ties/index.html) from the original on July 20, 2017. Retrieved
July 13, 2017.

115. Barrett, Devlin; Hsu, Spencer S. (February 23, 2018). "Former Trump campaign official Rick Gates
pleads guilty to 2 charges" (https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/ormer-trump-campaign-oftici
al-rick-gates-expected-to-plead-guilty-and-cooperate-with-special-counsel-in-probe-of-russian-elec
tion-interference/2018/02/23/ceaaeac8-1 6b4-11e8-b681-2d4d462a1921_story.html). The
Washington Post. Archived (https://web.archive. org/web/20180224001 151/https:/Awww.washington
post.com/politics/former-trump-campaign-official-rick-gates-expected-to-plead-guilty-and-cooperat
e-with-special-counsel-in-probe-of-russian-election-interference/2018/02/23/ceaaeac8-16b4-1168-
b681-2d4d462a1921_story.html) from the original on February 24, 2018. Retrieved February 24,
2018.

116. Nakashima, Ellen; Barrett, Devlin; Entous, Adam (April 11, 2017). "FBI obtained FISA warrant to
monitor former Trump adviser Carter Page" (https:/Awww.washingtonpost.com/world/national-secur
ityAbi-obtained-fisa-warrant-to-monitor-former-trump-adviser-carter-page/20 1 7/04/11/620192ea-1e
0e-11e7-ad74-3a742a6e93a7_story.html). The Washington Post. Archived (https://web.archive.or
g/web/201 70412000123/htips ://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/fbi-obtained-fisa-
warrant-to-monitor-former-trump-adviser-carter-page/201 7/04/11/620192ea-1e0e-11e7-ad74-3a74
2a6e93a/_story.html) from the original on April 12, 2017. Retrieved April 11, 2017.

117. Goldman, Adam (April 4, 2017). "Russian Spies Tried to Recruit Carter Page Before He Advised
Trump" (https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/04/04/us/politics/carter-page-trump-russia.html). The New
York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70414011019/https://www.nytimes.com/201
7/04/04/us/politics/carter-page-trump-russia.html) from the original on April 14, 2017. Retrieved
December 22, 2022.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 29/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

126.

127.

Pace, Julie (April 3, 2017). "Trump campaign adviser Carter Page met with Russian spy in 2013"
(http://;www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/politics/ct-carter-page-russian-spy-201 70403-st
ory.html). Chicago Tribune. Associated Press. Archived (https://Aweb.archive.org/web/20170406133
611/htip :/Avww.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/politics/ct-carter-page-russian-spy-201 70403
-story.html) from the original on April 6, 2017. Retrieved May 30, 2017.

Perez, Evan; Brown, Pamela; Prokupecz, Shimon (August 4, 2017). "One year into the FBI's
Russia investigation, Mueller is on the Trump money trail" (https:/Awww.cnn.com/201 7/08/03/politic
s/mueller-investigation-russia-trump-one-year-financial-ties/index.html). CNN. Atlanta, GA.

Boyd, Stephen E. (February 7, 2020). "Verified Application, Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court: In Re Carter Page" (https:/Avww. judiciary.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/FISA%20Warrant%20
Application®%20for%20Carter%20Page.pdf) (PDF). Judiciary.Senate.gov. Office of Legislative
Affairs, U.S. Department of Justice. pp. 13-14.

Watkins, Ali (April 3, 2017). "A Former Trump Adviser Met With A Russian Spy" (https:/Awww.buzzf
eednews.com/article/alimwatkins/a-former-trump-adviser-met-with-a-russian-spy). BuzzFeed
News. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70602045 734/https:/Awww.buzzfeed.com/alimwat
kins/a-former-trump-adviser-met-with-a-russian-spy) from the original on June 2, 2017.

Pace, Julie (March 6, 2017). "Senate committee calls on former Trump adviser Carter Page in
Russia investigation" (https://www.pbs.org/newshour/politics/senate-committee-calls-former-trump
-adviser-carter-page-russia-investigation). Associated Press. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

Cohen, Marshall; Watkins, Eli (March 4, 2016). "Who is Carter Page?" (http://Awww.cnn.com/2017/0
3/04/politics/carter-page-russia-donald-trump/index. html). CNN. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/
web/201 703080451 29/http ://www.cnn.com/201 7/03/04/politics/carter-page-russia-donald-trump/in
dex.html) from the original on March 8, 2017. Retrieved May 30, 2017.

Bertrand, Natasha (March 9, 2017). "Foreign policy adviser disavowed by Trump team says he
‘spent many hours’ at Trump campaign headquarters" (http://www. businessinsider.com/carter-pag
e-trump-campaign-headquarters-201 7-3). Business Insider. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/
201 704132351 21/http://www.businessinsider.com/carter-page-trump-campaign-headquarters-201
7-3) from the original on April 18, 2017. Retrieved April 12, 2017.

Brennan, Christopher (September 14, 2017). "Carter Page sues media over reports tying him to
Russia" (http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/carter-page-sues-media-reports-tying-russia-
article-1.3496612). Daily News. New York. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive. org/web/201 7091621142
3/http:/Awww. nydailynews.com/news/national/carter-page-sues-media-reports-tying-russia-article-
1.3496612) from the original on September 16, 2017. Retrieved September 18, 2017.

Lafond, Nicole; Kirkland, Allegra (March 21, 2018). "Judge Tosses Carter Page Defamation Suit
Against Yahoo Parent Company" (https://talkingpointsmemo.com/livewire/judge-tosses-page-defa
mation-suit). Talking Points Memo. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20190116150050/https://
talkingpointsmemo.com/livewire/judge-tosses-page-defamation-suit) from the original on January
16, 2019. Retrieved January 15, 2019.

Multiple sources:

= Leonard, Mike (February 11, 2021). "Carter Page Loses Libel Case Over 'Steele Dossier,
Russia Probe" (https://news. bloomberglaw.com/us-law-week/carter-page-loses-libel-case-over
-steele-dossier-russia-probe). Bloomberg Law. Retrieved February 13, 2021.

= Leonard, Mike (March 16, 2021). "Carter Page Seeks to Revive Defamation Case Over His
Russia Ties" (https://news.bloomberglaw.com/us-law-week/carter-page-seeks-to-revive-defam
ation-case-over-his-russia-ties). Bloomberg Law. Retrieved March 17, 2021.

= Montgomery, Jeff (February 11, 2021). "Del. Judge Nixes Carter Page Yahoo, HuffPost
Defamation Suit" (https:/Avww.law360.com/corporate/articles/1354820/del-judge-nixes-carter-p
age-yahoo-hutfpost-defamation-suit). Law360. Retrieved February 13, 2021.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 3038
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

133.

134.

135.

136.

137.

138.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

"FBI Attorney Admits Altering Email Used for FISA Application During "Crossfire Hurricane"
Investigation" (https://www.justice.gov/usao-ct/pr/fbi-attorney-admits-altering-email-used-fisa-appli
cation-during-crossfire-hurricane). justice.gov (Press release). August 19, 2020. Retrieved
September 30, 2021.

Williams, Pete; Winter, Tom (August 14, 2020). "Ex-FBI lawyer to plead guilty to falsifying claim
made to continue surveillance of key figure in Mueller probe" (https:/Avww.nbcnews.com/politics/ju
stice-department/ex-fbi-lawyer-plead-guilty-falsifying-claim-made-continue-surveillance-n1 23676
7). NBC News. Retrieved September 26, 2021.

Williams, Pete (January 29, 2021). "Ex-FBI lawyer gets probation for falsifying Carter Page
surveillance application" (https://Awww.nbcnews.com/politics/justice-department/ex-fbi-law yer-gets-
probation-falsifying-carter-page-surveillance-application-n12561 79). NBC News. Retrieved
September 26, 2021.

Lucas, Ryan (January 29, 2021). "Ex-FBl Lawyer Sentenced To Probation For Actions During
Russia Investigation" (https:/Avww. npr.org/202 1/01/29/9621 40325/ex-fbi-lawyer-sentenced-to-prob
ation-for-actions-during-russia-investigation). NPR. Retrieved September 26, 2021.

Zapotosky, Matt (January 29, 2021). "Ex-FBI lawyer avoids prison after admitting he doctored
email in investigation of Trump's 2016 campaign" (https:/Avww.washingtonpost.com/national-secur
ity/kevin-clinesmith-fbi-john-durham/202 1 /01/28/b06e061C-618e-11eb-afbe-9a11a127d146_story.h
tml). The Washington Post. Retrieved September 26, 2021.

Savage, Charlie (January 29, 2021). "Ex-F.B.1. Lawyer Who Altered Email in Russia Case Is
Sentenced to Probation" (https://Awww.nytimes.com/2021 /01/29/us/politics/kevin-clinesmith-probati
on.html). The New York Times. Retrieved September 26, 2021.

Hamburger, Tom; Leonnig, Carol D.; Helderman, Rosalind S. (August 14, 2017). "Trump campaign
emails show aide's repeated efforts to set up Russia meetings" (https:/Awww.washingtonpost.com/
politicstrump-campaign-emails-show-aides-repeated-efforts-to-set-up-russia-meetings/201 7/08/1
4/54d08da6-7dc2-11e7-83c7-5bd5460f0d7e_story.html). The Washington Post. Archived (https://w
eb.archive.org/web/201 7081500264 7/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-campaign-e
mails-show-aides-repeated-efforts-to-set-up-russia-meetings/201 7/08/1 4/54d08da6-7dc2-11e7-83
c7-5bd5460f0d7e_story.html) from the original on August 15, 2017. Retrieved August 15, 2017.

Guild, Blair (August 14, 2017). "Trump adviser emails show attempts to set up Russia meeting,
report says" (https:/Avww.cbsnews.com/news/trump-adviser-emails-show-russia-meeting-attempts
-report/). CBS News. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70815105802/http:/Avww.cbsnews.
com/news/rump-adviser-emails-show-russia-meeting-attempts-report/) from the original on
August 15, 2017. Retrieved August 15, 2017.

Apuzzo, Matt; Schmidt, Michael S. (October 30, 2017). "Trump Campaign Adviser Met With
Russian to Discuss 'Dirt' on Clinton" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/201 7/1 0/30/us/politics/george-papa
dopoulos-russia.html). The New York Times.

Bump, Phillip (October 30, 2017). "Paul Manafort: A FAQ about Trump's indicted former campaign
chairman" (https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/politics/wp/201 7/10/30/paul-manafort-what-we-
know-he-did-and-why-he-might-have-been-ensnared-by-the-investigation/). Washington Post.
Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/2021020919431 5/https:/Awww. washingtonpost.com/news/po
litics/wp/201 7/10/30/paul-manafort-what-we-know-he-did-and-why-he-might-have-been-ensnared-
by-the-investigation/) from the original on February 9, 2021. Retrieved October 30, 2017.

Winter, Tom; Connor, Tracy; Dilanian, Ken; Ainsley, Julia (October 30, 2017). "Ex-Trump Adviser
George Papadopoulos Pleads Guilty in Mueller's Russia Probe" (https:/Avww.nbcnews.com/news/
us-news/trump-campaign-adviser-george-papadopoulos-pleads-guilty-lying-n815596). NBC News.
Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20180518075459/https :/Avww. nbcnews.com/news/us-news/
trump-campaign-adviser-george-papadopoulos-pleads-guilty-lying-n815596) from the original on
May 18, 2018. Retrieved October 30, 2017.

31/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

139.

140.

141.

142.

143.

144.

145.

146.

147.

148.

149.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

"Ex-Trump Aide Papadopoulos Sentenced To 14 Days Jail For Lying To FBI" (https:/Aweb.archive.o
rg/web/201809081 21 449/https ://neadlinestoday. org/international/2456/ex-trump-aide-papadopoulo
s-sentenced-to-14-days-jail-for-lying-to-fbi/). Headlines Today. Archived from the original (https://h
eadlinestoday.org/international/2456/ex-trump-aide-papadopoulos-sentenced-to- 1 4-days-jail-for-lyi
ng-to-fbi/) on September 8, 2018. Retrieved September 8, 2018.

Matishak, Martin (March 20, 2017). "Roger Stone takes center stage as Congress lines up Russia
probe witnesses" (https:/Avww. politico.com/story/201 7/03/russia-hearing-fbi-roger-stone-236268).

Politico. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 70419002940/http ://www.politico.com/story/201
7/03/russia-hearing-fbi-roger-stone-236268) from the original on April 19, 2017. Retrieved April 18,
2017.

Polantz, Katelyn (February 15, 2019). "Special counsel prosecutors say they have
communications of Stone with WikiLeaks" (https:/Avww.cnn.com/2019/02/15/politics/roger-stone-w
ikileaks/index.html). CNN. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20190218154922/https:/Awww.cn
n.com/201 9/02/15/politics/roger-stone-wikileaks/index.html) from the original on February 18,
2019. Retrieved February 18, 2019.

Danner, Chas (March 11, 2017). "Trump Adviser Roger Stone Admits Messaging With Alleged
DNC Hacker" (https://nymag.comi/intelligencer/201 7/03/trump-adviser-roger-stone-admits-messagi
ng-with-dnc-hacker.html). New York. Archived (htips://web.archive.org/web/201 70423155837/htt
p://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/201 7/03/trump-adviser-roger-stone-admits-messaging-with-dnc-
hacker.html) from the original on April 23, 2017. Retrieved April 23, 2017.

Farley, Robert (March 28, 2017). "Misrepresenting Stone's Prescience" (https:/Avww.factcheck.or
g/2017/03/misrepresenting-stones-prescience/). FactCheck.org. Archived (https://web.archive.org/
web/202 102091 94337/https:/Avww.factcheck.org/201 7/03/misrepresenting-stones-prescience/)
from the original on February 9, 2021. Retrieved July 13, 2017.

Bertrand, Natasha (September 26, 2017). "Top Trump confidant points to dubious report to justify
conversation with Russian cyber spy" (https:/Avww. businessinsider.com/roger-stone-dnc-hacker-g
uccifer-russia-trump-201 7-9). Business Insider. Retrieved October 18, 2017.

Massie, Chris; McDermott, Nathan; Kaczynski, Andrew (March 20, 2017). "Trump adviser Roger
Stone repeatedly claimed to know of forthcoming WikiLeaks dumps" (https:/Avww.cnn.com/201 7/0
3/20/politics/kfile-roger-stone-wikileaks-claims/). CNN. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/2017
0423153750/http ://www.cnn.com/2017/03/20/politics/kfile-roger-stone-wikileaks-claims/) from the
original on April 23, 2017. Retrieved April 23, 2017.

Raju, Manu; Herb, Jeremy (November 29, 2017). "New York radio personality was Roger Stone's
WikiLeaks contact" (https:/Awww.cnn.com/201 7/11/29/politics/randy-credico-roger-stone-wikileaks/i
ndex.html). CNN. Retrieved November 30, 2017.

Kocieniewski, David (January 25, 2019). "Trump Associate Stone Charged With Obstruction in
Mueller Probe" (https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-01-25/roger-stone-arrested-in-flori
da-as-part-of-special-counsel-probe). bloomberg.com. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/2019
012514531 9/https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/201 9-01 -25/roger-stone-arrested -in-florida-
as-part-of-special-counsel-probe) from the original on January 25, 2019. Retrieved January 25,
2019.

Tucker, Eric; Day, Chad (January 25, 2019). "Roger Stone Arrested on Obstruction Charges in
Mueller Investigation" (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/20 190125 14531 5/http :/Aime.com/5512984/rog
er-stone-arrested-mueller/). Time. Associated Press. Archived from the original (http:/Aime.com/55
12984/roger-stone-arrested-mueller/) on January 25, 2019. Retrieved January 25, 2019.

Polantz, Katelyn (January 29, 2019). "Roger Stone enters not guilty plea" (https:/Avww.cnn.com/20
19/01/29/politics/roger-stone-arraignment/index. html). CNN. Archived (https://veb.archive.org/we
b/20190211034922/https :/www.cnn.com/2019/01/29/politics/roger-stone-arraignment/index.html)
from the original on February 11, 2019. Retrieved February 14, 2019.

32/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

150.

151.

152.

153.

154.

155.

156.

157.

158.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

LaFraniere, Sharon; Montague, Zach (November 15, 2019). "Roger Stone Is Found Guilty in Trial
That Revived Trump-Russia Saga" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/2019/11/15/us/politics/roger-stone-tri
al-guilty.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201911151 70006/http
s:/Awww.nytimes.com/2019/11/15/us/politics/roger-stone-trial-guilty.html) from the original on
November 15, 2019. Retrieved November 15, 2019.

Sneed, Tierney; Shuham, Matt (November 15, 2019). "Roger Stone Found Guilty On All Counts"
(https :/Aalkingpointsmemo.com/news/roger-stone-found-guilty-of-multiple-counts). Talking Points
Memo. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/20191115215435/https :/Aalkingpointsmemo.com/ne
ws/roger-stone-found-guilty-of-multiple-counts) from the original on November 15, 2019. Retrieved
November 16, 2019.

"The Latest: Stone convicted in 7 count indictment" (https://apnews.com/article/politics-us-news-d
onald-trump-roger-stone-indictments-f703186b217c46d1adc47d9a53e96565). The Associated
Press. November 15, 2019. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20220214180718/https://apnew
s.com/article/politics-us-news-donald-trump-roger-stone-indictments-f703 186b2t/7c46d1adc47d9a
53e96565) from the original on February 14, 2022. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

Matthew Mosk; Pete Madden; Mike Levine; Kaitlyn Folmer (July 16, 2018). "Maria Butina, Russian
gun rights activist linked to NRA, charged as Kremlin agent" (https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/mari
a-butina-russian-activist-linked-nra-charged-conspiracy/story ?id=56626626). abcnews.go.com.
ABCNews. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/20180716222726/https://abcnews.go.com/Politic
s/maria-butina-russian-activist-linked-nra-charged-conspiracy/story?id=56626626) from the
original on July 16, 2018. Retrieved August 17, 2023. "Torshin and Butina accompanied several
NRA board members on a December 2015 visit to Moscow, and Torshin sat at a dinner table with
Donald Trump Jr. at the May 2016 National Rifle Association convention."

Apuzzo, Matt; Benner, Katie; Lafraniere, Sharon (July 16, 2018). "Mariia Butina, Who Sought
‘Back Channel' Meeting for Trump and Putin, Is Charged as Russian Agent" (https:/Awww.nytimes.
com/2018/07/16/us/politics/trump-russia-indictment.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://w
eb.archive.org/web/2018071 7034550/http ://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/1 6/us/politicsArump-russia-
indictment. html) from the original on July 17, 2018. Retrieved July 17, 2018.(subscription required)

Becker, Jo; Apuzzo, Matt; Goldman, Adam (July 9, 2017). "Trump's Son Met With Russian Lawyer
After Being Promised Damaging Information on Clinton" (https:/;www.nytimes.com/201 7/07/09/us/
politicstrump-russia-kushner-manafort.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.o
rg/web/201 70711011757/https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/0 7/09/us/politicstrump-russia-kushner-m
anafort.html) from the original on July 11, 2017. Retrieved July 11, 2017.

"Read the Emails on Donald Trump Jr.'s Russia Meeting" (https:/Avww. nytimes.com/interactive/20
17/07/11/us/politics/donald-trump-jr-email-text.html). The New York Times. July 11, 2017. Archived
(https://web. archive.org/web/201 70712002323/https ://www.nytimes.com/interactive/20 17/0 7/11/us/
politics/donald-trump-jr-email-text.html) from the original on July 12, 2017. Retrieved July 12,
2017.

Apuzzo, Matt; Becker, Jo; Goldman, Adam; Haberman, Maggie (July 11, 2017). "Trump Jr. Was
Told in Email of Russian Effort to Aid Campaign" (https:/Awww.nytimes.com/201 7/07/10/us/politics/
donald-trump-jr-russia-email-candidacy.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.
org/web/201 70711011045/https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/07/10/us/politics/donald-trump-jr-russia-
email-candidacy.html) from the original on July 11, 2017. Retrieved July 11, 2017.

Brown, Pamela; Herb, Jeremy (October 9, 2017). "Russians' lawyer says new documents show
Trump Tower meeting not about dirt on Clinton" (https:/Awww.cnn.com/201 7/10/09/politics/russia-tr
ump-tower-meeting-new-documents/index. html). CNN. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/201
71016200935/http:/Awww.cnn.com/201 7/10/09/politics/russia-trump-tower-meeting-new-document
s/index.html) from the original on October 16, 2017. Retrieved October 17, 2017.

33/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

159.

160.

161.

162.

163.

164.

165.

166.

167.

Groll, Elias (October 16, 2017). "Here's the Memo the Kremlin-Linked Lawyer Took to the Meeting
With Donald Trump Jr" (https:/Aoreignpolicy.com/201 7/10/16/heres-memo-kremlin-lawyer-took-to-
meeting-donald-trump-jr/). Foreign Policy. Archived (https://web.archive.org/veb/2017101621064
9/http://oreignpolicy.com/201 7/10/16/heres-memo-kremlin-lawyer-took-to-meeting-donald-trump-;
r/) from the original on October 16, 2017. Retrieved October 17, 2017.

Ross, Brian; Mosk, Matthew (May 30, 2017). "Congress expands Russia investigation to include
Trump's personal attorney" (https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/russia-investigation-expands-include-
donald-trumps-personal-attorney/story?id=47646601). ABC News. Archived (https://web.archive.o
rg/web/201 70530162834/http ://abcnews.go.com/Politics/russia-investigation-expands-include-don
ald-trumps-personal-attorney/story?id=47646601) from the original on May 30, 2017. Retrieved
May 30, 2017.

"Russia inquiry expands to Trump lawyer Michael Cohen" (https:/Avww.bbc.com/news/world-us-ca
nada-40098658). BBC News. May 30, 2017. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 705311218
09/http:/Avww.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-40098658) from the original on May 31, 2017.
Retrieved May 30, 2017.

Bertrand, Natasha (May 22, 2019). "FBI search warrants detail Michael Cohen Russia ties" (http
s://www.politico.com/story/2019/05/22/michael-cohen-russia-fbi-1340078). Politico. Retrieved
September 13, 2022.

Kirchgaessner, Stephanie; Hopkins, Nick; Harding, Luke (June 1, 2017). "Nigel Farage is 'person
of interest’ in FBI investigation into Trump and Russia" (https://www.theguardian.com/politics/201 7/
jun/01 /nigel-farage-is-person-of-interest-in-fbi-investigation-into-trump-and-russia). The Guardian.
Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/201 7060200254 4/https :/Mvwww.theguardian.com/politics/201
7/jun/01 /nigel-farage-is-person-of-interest-in-fbi-investigation-into-trump-and-russia) from the
original on June 2, 2017. Retrieved June 2, 2017.

Helderman, Rosalind S. (July 22, 2018). "Russian billionaire with U.S. investments backed alleged
agent Maria Butina, according to a person familiar with her Senate testimony" (https:/Awww.washin
gtonpost.com/politics/russian-billionaire-with-us-investments-backed-alleged-agent-maria-butina-a
ccording-to-a-person-familiar-with-her-senate-testimony/2018/07/22/dcaa7t48-8c58-1168-a345-a
bf7847b375_story.html). Washington Post. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/2018072215041
4/https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/russian-billionaire-with-us-investments-backed-alleged-
agent-maria-butina-according-to-a-person-familiar-with-her-senate-testimony/201 8/0 7/22/dcaa/t4
8-8058-11e8-a345-a1bt7847b375_story.html) from the original on July 22, 2018. Retrieved
October 27, 2018.

Watkins, Eli; Herb, Jeremy (July 22, 2018). "Alleged spy told Senate panel about backing from
Russian billionaire" (https:/Awww.cnn.com/201 8/0 7/22/politics/outina-konstantin-nikolaev/index.htm
I). CNN. Archived (https:/Aweb.archive.org/web/20180727032852/https ://www.cnn.com/2018/07/22/
politics/outina-konstantin-nikolaev/index.html) from the original on July 27, 2018. Retrieved
October 27, 2018.

"KOHCTAHTMH Hukonaes - MapvoHeTKa Mropa Jlesutuna" (https://web.archive.org/web/20181028
033742/https ://www.rospres.org/politics/24938/) [Konstantin Nikolaev - Igor Levitin's puppet).
RosPres.com (in Russian). July 26, 2018. Archived from the original (https://www.rospres.org/politi
cs/24938/) on October 28, 2018. Retrieved October 27, 2018.

Herb, Jeremy; Polantz, Katelyn; and, Liz Stark; Raju, Manu (December 7, 2017). "Democrats
grilled Prince about meeting Bannon" (https://www.cnn.com/201 7/12/06/politics/erik-prince-steve-b
annon-seychelles-meeting/index.html). CNN. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20180523100
831 /htips:/Avww.cnn.com/201 7/12/06/politics/erik-prince-steve-bannon-seychelles-meeting/index.h
tml) from the original on May 23, 2018. Retrieved May 22, 2018.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 3438
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

168. Entous, Adam; Miller, Greg; Sieff, Kevin; DeYoung, Karen (April 3, 2016). "Blackwater founder
held secret Seychelles meeting to establish Trump-Putin back channel" (https:/Awww.washingtonp
ost.com/world/national-security/blackwater-founder-held-secret-seychelles-meeting-to-establish-tr
ump-putin-back-channel/20 1 7/04/03/95908a08-1648-11e7-ada0-1489b735b3a3_story.html). The
Washington Post. Archived (htips://web.archive.org/web/201 7040323561 O/https :/Avww.washington
post.com/world/national-security/blackwater-founder-held-secret-seychelles-meeting-to-establish-t
rump-putin-back-channel/201 7/04/03/95908a08-1648-11e7-ada0-1489b735b3a3_story.html) from
the original on April 3, 2017. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

169. Dilanian, Ken; Arkin, William M. (April 3, 2017). "Blackwater Founder Repped Trump at Secret
Meeting Overseas: Sources" (https:/Avww.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/blackwater-founder-reppe
d-trump-secret-meeting-overseas-sources-n742266). NBC News. Archived (https:/Aweb.archive.or
g/web/201 70419100006/http://www. nbcnews.com/news/us-news/blackwater-founder-repped-trum
p-secret-meeting-overseas-sources-n/42266) from the original on April 19, 2017. Retrieved
April 19, 2017.

170. Mazzetti, Mark; Bergman, Ronen; Kirkpatrick, David D. (May 19, 2018). "Trump Jr. and Other
Aides Met With Gulf Emissary Offering Help to Win Election" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/2018/05/1
9/us/politicstrump-jr-saudi-uae-nader-prince-zamel.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://
web.archive.org/web/20180613204813/https ://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/19/us/politicsArump-jr-s
audi-uae-nader-prince-zamel.html) from the original on June 13, 2018. Retrieved May 19, 2018.

171. Testimony of Erik Prince (https://docs. house.gov/meetings/IG/IGO0/201 7 1130/106661/HHRG-115-I
GO00-Transcript-20171130.pdf) (PDF). United States House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence (Report). November 30, 2017. Archived (https://web. archive. org/web/2018101310434
5/https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IG/1G00/201 71130/106661/HHRG-115-IGO0-Transcript-201711
30.pdf) (PDF) from the original on October 13, 2018. Retrieved June 14, 2019.

172. Borger, Julian; Ackerman, Spencer (March 20, 2017). "Trump-Russia collusion is being
investigated by FBI, Comey confirms" (https:/Awww.theguardian.com/us-news/201 7/mar/20/fbi-dire
ctor-comey-confirms-investigation-trump-russia). The Guardian. Archived (https://web.archive.org/
web/201 70321000127/https:/Avww.theguardian.com/us-news/201 7/mar/20/bi-director-comey-cont
irms-investigation-trump-russia) from the original on March 21, 2017. Retrieved May 30, 2017.

173. Levine, Mike; Kelsey, Adam (May 17, 2017). "Robert Mueller appointed special counsel to oversee
probe into Russia's interference in 2016 election" (https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/robert-mueller-
appointed-special-counsel-oversee-probe-russias/story?id=47472673). ABC News. Archived (http
s://web.archive.org/web/201 7051 7220253/http ://abcnews.go.com/Politics/robert-mueller-appointed
-special-counsel-oversee-probe-russias/story?id=4 7472673) from the original on May 17, 2017.
Retrieved May 17, 2017.

174. Carney, Jordain (January 24, 2017). "Senate committee moving forward with Russia hacking
probe" (https://thehill.com/blogs/floor-action/senate/315987-senate-committee-moving-forward-wit
h-russia-hacking-probe/). The Hill. Archived (https:/Aveb. archive.org/web/201 70322 133853/http V/A
hehill.com/blogs/loor-action/senate/3 1598 7-senate-committee-moving-forward-with-russia-hackin
g-probe) from the original on March 22, 2017. Retrieved March 4, 2017.

175. Wright, Austin (January 25, 2017). "Second Hill panel to probe possible ties between Russia,
Trump campaign" (https://www. politico.com/story/201 7/01/house-intelligence-committee-russia-tru
mp-234168). Politico. Archived (https://web.archive.org/veb/201 702262141 40/http ://www.politico.c
om/story/201 7/01 /house-intelligence-committee-russia-trump-234168) from the original on
February 26, 2017. Retrieved February 28, 2017.

176. Singman, Brooke (October 30, 2017). "Paul Manafort, Rick Gates indicted by federal grand jury in
Russia probe" (https://www.foxnews.com/politics/paul-manafort-rick-gates-indicted-by-federal-gran
d-jury-in-russia-probe). Fox News. Retrieved October 30, 2017.

177. Williams, Pete; Winter, Tom (December 8, 2020). "Judge takes final shots at Trump, Flynn as he
agrees to dismiss case" (https://Awww.nbcnews.com/politics/justice-department/judge-take-final-sh
ots-trump-flynn-he-agrees-dismiss-case-n1250415). NBC News. Retrieved December 22, 2022.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 3538
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

178.

179.

180.

181.

182.

183.

184.

185.

186.

187.

188.

189.

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials

Schmidt, Michael S.; Mazzetti, Mark; Apuzzo, Matt (February 14, 2017). "Trump Campaign Aides
Had Repeated Contacts With Russian Intelligence" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/201 7/02/1 4/us/politi
cs/russia-intelligence-communications-trump.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.arc
hive.org/web/201 70302025649/https://www.nytimes.com/201 7/02/1 4/us/politics/russia-intelligence
-communications-trump.html) from the original on March 2, 2017. Retrieved May 4, 2018.

Schmidt, Michael S.; Mazzetti, Mark; Apuzzo, Matt (June 8, 2017). "Comey Disputes New York
Times Article About Russia Investigation (Published 2017)" (https:/Awww.nytimes.com/201 7/06/08/
us/politics/james-comey-new-york-times-article-russia.html). The New York Times.

Desiderio, Andrew; Cheney, Kyle (July 17, 2020). "Graham releases declassified docs on early
months of Russia probe" (https:/Avww.politico.com/news/2020/07/1 7/lindsey-graham-russia-probe-
documents-368045). Politico. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20210126131303/https://ww
w.politico.com/news/2020/07/1 7/lindsey-graham-russia-probe-documents-368045) from the
original on January 26, 2021. Retrieved July 20, 2020.

Savage, Charlie; Goldman, Adam (July 18, 2020). "F.B.I. Agent in Russia Inquiry Saw Basis in
Early 2017 to Doubt Dossier" (https:/Avww. nytimes.com/2020/07/1 7/us/politics/steele-dossier-pete
r-strzok.html). The New York Times. Retrieved December 27, 2022.

Brown, Pamela; Perez, Evan; Prokupecz, Shimon; Sciutto, Jim (March 28, 2017). "US officials:
Info suggests Trump associates may have coordinated with Russians" (https:/Avww.cnn.com/201
7/03/22/politics/us-officials-info-suggests-trump-associates-may-have-coordinated-with-russians/in
dex.html). CNN. Archived (https:/Aveb.archive.org/web/20180501232250/htips ://www.cnn.com/201
7/03/22/politics/us-officials-into-suggests-trump-associates-may-have-coordinated-with-russians/in
dex.html) from the original on May 1, 2018. Retrieved May 4, 2018.

Schmidt, Michael S. (April 30, 2018). "Mueller Has Dozens of Inquiries for Trump in Broad Quest
on Russia Ties and Obstruction" (https:/Avww.nytimes.com/2018/04/30/us/politics/robert-mueller-q
uestions-trump.html). The New York Times. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/2018050100512
4/https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/30/us/politics/robert-mueller-questions-trump. html) from the
original on May 1, 2018. Retrieved May 4, 2018.

Kessler, Glenn (October 29, 2017). "Analysis - The 'dossier' and the uranium deal: A guide to the
latest allegations" (https://Awww.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/201 7/1 0/29/the-dossier
-and-the-uranium-deal-a-guide-to-the-latest-allegations/). The Washington Post. Retrieved
October 27, 2021. "well-developed conspiracy of co-operation between [the Trump campaign] and
the Russian leadership"

Lucas, Ryan (August 23, 2017). "Researcher Behind Unverified Trump Dossier Meets Senate
Investigators" (https:/Avww.npr.org/201 7/08/23/545289362/researcher-behind-unverified-trump-do
ssier-meets-senate-investigators). NPR. Retrieved November 5, 2021.

Sengupta, Kim (April 21, 2018). "Trump denounced the Steele dossier as fake, but many of its
contents are turning out to be true" (https://www.independent.co. uk/news/world/americas/us-politic
s/trump-russia-dossier-christopher-steele-fake-true-mi6-putin-moscow-hotel-cohen-a8315046.htm
I). The Independent. Archived (https://ghostarchive. org/archive/2022061 4/https://www.independen
t.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/trump-russia-dossier-christopher-steele-fake-true-mi6-puti
n-moscow-hotel-cohen-a8315046.html) from the original on June 14, 2022. Retrieved

November 5, 2021.

Grant, Sarah; Rosenberg, Chuck (December 14, 2018). "The Steele Dossier: A Retrospective" (htt
ps://www.lawfaremedia.org/steele-dossier-retrospective). Lawfare. Retrieved December 29, 2019.

Perez, Evan; Brown, Pamela; Prokupecz, Shimon (August 3, 2017). "One year into the FBI's
Russia investigation, Mueller is on the Trump money trail" (https:/Awww.cnn.com/201 7/08/03/politic
s/mueller-investigation-russia-trump-one-year-financial-ties/index.html). CNN. CNN. Retrieved
December 10, 2019.

Goodman, Ryan (June 15, 2018). "Paul Manafort = Evidence of Collusion" (https:/Avww.justsecurit
y.org/57863/paul-manafort-evidence-collusion/). Just Security. Retrieved December 10, 2019.

36/38
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

190. Graham, David A. (January 10, 2018). "What 'Fire and Fury’ Shares With the Steele Dossier" (http
s://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/01 /Arump-dossier-michael-wolff-simpson-testimony/5
50175/). The Atlantic. Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20180204124045/https ://www.theatla
ntic.com/politics/archive/2018/01 /Arump-dossier-michael-wolff-simpson-testimony/5501 75/) from
the original on February 4, 2018. Retrieved February 2, 2018.

Further reading

= Weisburd, Andrew; Watts, Clint; Berger, JM (November 6, 2016). "Trolling for Trump: How Russia
is Trying to Destroy Our Democracy" (https:/Avarontherocks.com/201 6/11 Arolling-for-trump-how-ru
ssia-is-trying-to-destroy-our-democracy/). War on the Rocks. Retrieved December 27, 2022.

= Nance, Malcolm (2016), The Plot to Hack America: How Putin's Cyberspies and WikiLeaks Tried
to Steal the 2016 Election, Skyhorse Publishing, ISBN 978-1510723320, OCLC 987592653 (http
s://search.worldcat.org/oclc/987592653)

= Strohm, Chris (December 1, 2016). "Russia Weaponized Social Media in U.S. Election, FireEye
Says" (https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/201 6-12-01 /russia-weaponized-social-media-in-u
-s-election-fireeye-says). Bloomberg News.

= Demirjian, Karoun (December 8, 2016). "Republicans ready to launch wide-ranging probe of
Russia, despite Trump's stance" (https://www.chicagotribune.com/nation-world/ct-senate-probe-ru
ssia-trump-20161208-story.html). Chicago Tribune.

= Porter, Tom (December 1, 2016). "US House of representatives backs proposal to counter global
Russian subversion" (https ://www. ibtimes.co. uk/us-house-representatives-backs-proposal-counter
-global-russian-subversion-1594342). International Business Times UK edition.

= McCain, John; Graham, Lindsey; Schumer, Chuck; Reed, Jack (December 11, 2016). "McCain,
Graham, Schumer, Reed Joint Statement on Reports That Russia Interfered with the 2016
Election" (https:/Awww.armed-services.senate.gov/press-releases/mccain-graham-schumer-reed-j
oint-statement-on-reports-that-russia-interfered-with-the-2016-election). United States Senate
Committee on Armed Services.

= Lichtman, Allan J. (2017). The Case for Impeachment. Dey Street Books. ISBN 978-0062696823.

= Frank, Thomas (January 12, 2018). "Secret Money: How Trump Made Millions Selling Condos To
Unknown Buyers" (https:/Avww.buzzfeed.com/thomasfrank/secret-money-how-trump-made-million
s-selling-condos-to). BuzzFeed News.

= Hettena, Seth (2017). Trump/Russia : a definitive history (https:/Mwww.worldcat.org/oclc/10326418
88). Brooklyn: Melville House. ISBN 978-1-61219-739-5. OCLC 1032641888 (https://search.world
cat.org/oclc/1032641888).

= Trump/Russia, a 2018 three-part Australian TV investigative series produced by Four Corners and
reported by Sarah Ferguson.!Il@]

External links

= "Joint Statement from the Department Of Homeland Security and Office of the Director of National
Intelligence on Election Security" (https:/Avww.dhs.gov/news/2016/10/07/joint-statement-departme
nt-homeland-security-and-office-director-national). dhs.gov. October 7, 2016.

= Bredemeier, Ken (May 31, 2017). "Trump Assails Congressional Probes of His Campaign's Links
to Russia" (https://www. voanews.com/a/trump-carter-page-flynn-kushner-russia-investigations/388
1251.html). VOA News.

« Berkowitz, Bonnie; Lu, Denise; Vitkovskaya, Julie (February 23, 2018). "Here's what we learned
about Team Trump's ties to Russian interests" (https:/Avwww.washingtonpost.com/graphics/national/

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 37138
3/23/25, 5:02 PM Links between Trump associates and Russian officials - Wikipedia

trump-russia/). The Washington Post. Retrieved February 27, 2022.

= Crowley, Michael (March 3, 2017). "All of Trump's Ties to Russia, in 7 Charts" (https:/Avww. politico.
com/magazine/story/201 7/03/connections-trump-putin-russia-ties-chart-flynn-page-manafort-sessi
ons-214868/). Politico. Retrieved September 28, 2022.

1. "Trump/Russia: Follow the Money" (https://www.abc.net.au/4corners/trumprussia:-follow-the-mone
y/9840958). Four Corners. June 6, 2018. Archived (https://web. archive.org/web/20201111221146/
https:/Avww.abc.net.au/4corners/trumprussia:-follow-the-money/9840958) from the original on
November 11, 2020. Retrieved November 8, 2020.

2. ABC Commercial (July 4, 2018). "Trump Russia Parts 1, 2 & 3" (https:/Awww.abccommercial.comilli
brarysales/program/four-corners-trump-russia-parts-1-2-3). Library Sales - ABC Commercial.
Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20201121082428/https://www.abccommercial.com/librarysal
es/program/four-corners-trump-russia-parts-1-2-3) from the original on November 21, 2020.
Retrieved November 8, 2020.

Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials&oldid=1280635707"

https: //en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Links_between_Trump_associates_and_Russian_officials 3838
